Mitch Lederman: familiar faces there I see benny se Karen I see Nick or sitting right in a row there, how you guys doing good.
Luthman Jr., Nick: Good.
Mitch Lederman: Good all right well great well thanks everybody, I appreciate Mayra giving me the opportunity.
Mitch Lederman: To come and talk to you guys tonight i'm going to try and make this to be as a little less a little painful as possible.
Mitch Lederman: To everyone because writing resumes unless you do it for a living.
Mitch Lederman: is probably not at the top of your hey This is something I want to spend my Saturday night doing even during covert times so i'll try to make it at least.
Mitch Lederman: into some chunks and give you some good ideas of how to proceed, and how to start moving forward or to continue your forward progress, so one rule, I have here is.
Mitch Lederman: I think I had asked my refund could disable the chat I just like if you have questions just jump in.
Mitch Lederman: Okay i'm not formal or anything like that, if you start talking over me that's okay.
Mitch Lederman: I do suggest you do that versus the raising the hand because i'm typically just so engrossed in the conversation that i'm not seeing those things anyway, but anyway that's it which really informal let's just have a dialogue here.
Mitch Lederman: and see what we can do Okay, so today we're going to talk about resumes and i've broken down to a couple of different chunks here we'll talk about resume reviews how they're viewed from the other side of the the wizards curtain.
Mitch Lederman: how you can differentiate yourself what value added means for those of you who are a bit more seasoned or experienced you might be putting executive summaries onto your resume.
Mitch Lederman: And then we're going to talk about the using the star format, which is one of our major interview and discussion formats and techniques we're going to talk about how that is an absolutely 100% applicable to creating your resume so with that I want to ask one question first.
Mitch Lederman: What is a resume for.
Swanson J, Charles: get a job.
Zuberi, Bilal: advertise through that interview.
Mitch Lederman: So I heard to get a job to advertise you should.
Mitch Lederman: Get you in the interview.
Mitch Lederman: anyone else.
Craig: Getting past the recruiter.
Mitch Lederman: Getting past the recruiter okay so let's look at it this way um the resume at most what it is, is it will open a door for you that's it, it can open the door it's not going to get you the job.
Mitch Lederman: It may or may not get you an interview Okay, and I think somebody said it's an advertisement that's probably the closest of what it is it's your personal advertisement okay it's your written advertisement that saying hey.
Mitch Lederman: Come by me hey come visit me hey come whatever engage with me that's the purpose of the resume.
Mitch Lederman: Once you start a dialogue with somebody because you were successful using your resume and other techniques which we've talked about in some of my other.
Mitch Lederman: Week workshops during the year once you've done that the resume is pretty much gone it did its job it got the process started for you, at that point, it shifts into who you are and how you sell yourself.
Mitch Lederman: So, having said that we've got to make sure that this resume is really, really spot on and delivers the right message.
Mitch Lederman: i'm going to ask I don't need anyone to to jump into it, because we've done this in some of my other programs, but how many of you feel right now that you could sell yourself for a job in 30 seconds or less.
Mitch Lederman: Any takers on that no takers okay we'll make it easier how about in 20 seconds or less.
Mitch Lederman: still no takers Okay, I get it okay So what are the you want to surfing about before you even create your resume Why would anybody hire me.
Mitch Lederman: Because the end of the day, the resume has to send that one message it's very simple but you're very complex this resume should tell somebody why they should hire me.
Mitch Lederman: And then the rest of it will be you bringing your personality and bringing your resume to life.
Mitch Lederman: So I want you to keep thinking about that, and that should be a process that's going to change, because if you thought about that question.
Mitch Lederman: A year and a half ago, when we first met in orientation and you were starting this program your response today will probably be very different.
Mitch Lederman: Why you're a year and a half folder you have a year and a half, more experience you've certainly got new experiences and skills from the Ms analytics Program.
Mitch Lederman: And so it's constantly changing it's constantly evolving both with you growing and the situations you're in grow, so you really need to start thinking about that okay so.
Mitch Lederman: let's talk about that resume reviews three to 10 seconds isn't wearing one be a little bit more precise what they think the average time a human being looks at a resume is during the job, sir.
Mitch Lederman: it's between three and 10.
Mitch Lederman: Five five okay by the five anyone else.
Mitch Lederman: it's not a big range.
Mitch Lederman: Okay.
So.
Mitch Lederman: Just about time to me to quarter to a third of your resume so how much time is that going to take for me to read the top 30 your resume let's look at it that way.
Mitch Lederman: me being experienced having been in executive search in higher education for 27 years now, I could read that top 30 your resume probably in around four or five seconds and see enough.
Mitch Lederman: I use the word read loosely because i'm already trained in my I knows exactly what to look for.
Mitch Lederman: But the fact is it's about 7.9 seconds, so if a human being, actually even read your resume you have about eight seconds worth of their time.
Mitch Lederman: that's not a lot to think about eight seconds usain bolt can't even run 100 meters in that eight seconds he's going to be somewhere.
Mitch Lederman: About 20 meters or so from the finish line 15 meters or so from there just to put it into perspective usain bolt For those of you don't remember him is the Olympic Gold Medal champion in the hundred meter.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so that means we've got to be really crisp we got to be sharp and we got to be right, to the point.
Mitch Lederman: We want to give them enough information so that they're going to say hey.
Mitch Lederman: I need to talk to this person or hey this is really great Let me read on a little bit and see what else is there, but that's it okay they're going to look at the top.
Mitch Lederman: and get down to third, which means for most of your resumes if you don't have an executive summary which you won't unless you have 10 years or more experience.
Mitch Lederman: we're going to be talking about probably senior education and seeing maybe one or two bullets of your first job.
Mitch Lederman: And maybe if you put in a box of skills or other things like that that's it and that's what's basically going to be a yes, no.
Mitch Lederman: I want to continue talking to this person or continue reading on or i'm going to discard the resume when I was an executive search the process, I went through because sometimes we get hundreds of resumes.
Mitch Lederman: was first pass, I would just look at resumes visually I looked for alignment I look for fonts I look for did they bowled in the right places.
Mitch Lederman: Was there too much bolding which meant they were screaming yelling at me and things like that, believe it or not, I can take 100 resumes down to 30.
Mitch Lederman: Just by saying this person didn't put a lot of time and care of her effort into it, so why should I care about them.
Mitch Lederman: My next screen was in to go and look at the top, and the first bullet or two, this is about the 10 second 810 second screen.
Mitch Lederman: I can bring it down to around 10 and those 10 word, the final pile where I read the entire resume so that's 10% of the resumes that I got on average I ever read the entire thing.
Mitch Lederman: And that's it and such so and those were the Chris people did I miss some good people yeah I probably did, but you know what it was survival.
Mitch Lederman: And that was a while ago because i've been out of executive search for a while, think of it today how many thousands of resumes come flooding in.
Mitch Lederman: Especially now, with more companies offering virtual opportunities.
Mitch Lederman: The volume is just increased exponentially was enough that if I if I put something in Houston I can get 500 applications now if i'm in Houston, and I say that i'll take some a virtual.
Mitch Lederman: multiply it by 50 states, maybe it's not a linear multiple multiplication, but certainly not going to be just oh we'll get another five resumes with things like that.
Mitch Lederman: So you want to differentiate be careful of the applicant tracking systems, the at SS as they're they're known as because that's who's your first going to have to get past, so you want to make sure that your resume.
Mitch Lederman: fits the job description, what do we mean by fits the job description it doesn't mean that it's verbatim cut and paste.
Mitch Lederman: But if they're looking for certain attributes make sure those attributes are clear from your resume if they're looking for certain programming languages or analytical languages, make sure those are.
Mitch Lederman: In your resume, not just in a box that says software skills or analytical skills, but showing how you apply those skills which gets us to the point that you probably need.
Mitch Lederman: Five different resumes three different resumes 10 different resumes just depends upon how wide of a search you're doing but it's certainly not a one size fits all.
Mitch Lederman: The applicant tracking systems really changed the game when they started and they haven't really improved that much i'll be honest with you they're doing the same thing now.
Mitch Lederman: there's, which brings me to something that Jim brought up before the program officially got started you all recall from last summer, using the V mock program to score your resume.
Mitch Lederman: OK, so the question was is that a good place to start on and jumping off so The short answer is yes, it is.
Mitch Lederman: The math is very helpful to us in the career Center because, if anything, it gets you all the resume structured right it helps us so we don't have to go through a lot of the tedious formatting part things like that.
Mitch Lederman: But what V mock doesn't do and what applicant tracking systems don't do is they can't think they only do with the program tells them the program says if mitchell's resume has the word tablo give them a point.
Mitch Lederman: If niches resume says that he can scrub data, give them a point.
Mitch Lederman: that's it and then the landed up and say Oh, which is what 73 let's invite them to talk oh Mitch for 50 he didn't meet the threshold let's reject them or things like that.
Mitch Lederman: What it can't do is start figuring out what did Mitch mean when he wrote in there about how he analyzed data or things like that.
Mitch Lederman: So there's a fine line there about serving the human beings needs who can think and reason about what you've done and the applicant tracking system which, basically, is looking for words so just be careful about those at SS alright any questions about that that's how the resumes a review.
Mitch Lederman: it's it's it's that simple as that complex.
Mitch Lederman: I, but I can tell you, most of your screens are going to go immediately through an applicant tracking system they're not going to reach anybody's desk okay so next thing we have to do is, you have to differentiate ourselves.
Mitch Lederman: I think, Mary said there were 45 people online, here we have people in the class and so forth, every one of you.
Mitch Lederman: have different characteristics that make you different and differentiate you from each other that's what you need to do, which means we can't be generic.
Mitch Lederman: We want to be more specific, and we want to really highlight the value that we will add, so what makes me different okay let's see results, we have to have results.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, the number one if we did a survey from family feud the number one response from people on that was resumes that didn't have results.
Mitch Lederman: Okay people just said, I did this, and they may have done it well, but it doesn't matter because I need to know results.
Mitch Lederman: I need to, especially now, for you guys you're coming out of a master's program in a business school.
Mitch Lederman: They are going to they being the people on the outside the at SS and the UN two reasons they're gonna be looking for leadership.
Mitch Lederman: they're going to want to know how you influence people how you persuade people how you make decisions, how you got people to unite behind a common goal.
Mitch Lederman: we've got to make sure that that's a message that comes through let's cycle back to what I said at the very beginning here do we all know why somebody should hire me.
Mitch Lederman: Well guess what one of the reasons should be your leadership, and that means you got to show how you have influenced and persuaded people within your organization.
Mitch Lederman: And they want to know your thought process, how you walk sometimes they want to know how you walk through solving problems.
Mitch Lederman: These are the types of things that we're looking for that are going to differentiate you from your generic candidate.
Mitch Lederman: that's Why is we got to have a value proposition we've got to know and have the reason why somebody would hire me versus the other 44 people plus four in this.
Mitch Lederman: actions and results oriented words and data you guys have to have numbers everybody has to have numbers results okay Oh, but Mitch.
Mitch Lederman: I don't have them I don't remember them, it was a job ago and I can't get that data or something like that.
Mitch Lederman: Okay that's all right, what I always say is sometimes you you give ranges or you say savings estimated to be as soon as you use those words you're clean.
Mitch Lederman: Trust me on this when you put a number down and you said Oh, I did an analysis of the inventory and modify the system to cut the.
Mitch Lederman: event or the stale inventory by 4% nobody's going to sit there and go show me how you cut it by 4% will show me the analysis, you did because 4% is reasonable.
Mitch Lederman: But if you said oh I ran a project that had $100,000 budget and I brought it in $99,000 of the budget.
Mitch Lederman: Evil they go work time out that's not working nobody's that good where they cut a budget by 99% so don't worry about that, but we've got to have numbers because that's, the only way I can really see that you translated your actions into results so some questions are here.
Mitch Lederman: Little question or is that just somebody talking.
Mitch Lederman: Okay.
Mitch Lederman: Effective words developed executed created save re engineer design redesigned modified reduced initiated.
Mitch Lederman: These are action words action verbs that's why i'm going to hire you i'm going to hire you because you're a door.
Mitch Lederman: you're someone who starts and finishes things you get results I don't want the people who are there they're just saying.
Mitch Lederman: Words like participating okay or things like that i've seen people write on their resume listen and these are data go oh.
Mitch Lederman: What does it mean that you listen in a meeting or something like that it doesn't help we want very powerful words and then back them up with with.
Mitch Lederman: numbers in effective supportive, I never know what supported means and my mind immediately jumps when I see the word supported.
Mitch Lederman: To you've got the coffee and donuts for people that's exactly what I jumped to on it facilitated it's another one I don't know what the word facilitated means i'm participated.
Mitch Lederman: Congratulations, will give you a certificate and the trophy for participating and listened see.
Mitch Lederman: Things like that, although you won't get credit for listening to me tonight and putting up with me.
Mitch Lederman: Anyway, you see where i'm coming from it's got to be action I got to have a reason every word should be saying Mitch you got to talk to me makes you got to talk to me boom here's why and such alright.
Mitch Lederman: Any questions thoughts about that all of our resumes and power packed good right full of those good strong action verbs in the results.
Mitch Lederman: not yet okay we'll get there.
Mitch Lederman: Alright, no questions okay let's move on fine tuning your resume we're talking about results here, not all experiences are equal highlight your most evaluated activities and your results, why does somebody think I put that on there.
Mitch Lederman: What made me put that bullet up there.
Leiah Wyckoff: you've probably seen some people highlights and pretty relevant accomplishments as it pertains to the job.
Mitch Lederman: yeah that's a great way, to put it, thank you, people will highlight something, but it has no relevance to the position.
Mitch Lederman: Great you did something really good, but you didn't tie it to what I need you to do so it's not worth anything to me.
Mitch Lederman: I also put it there, because some people like to do what I call and you guys will appreciate this in your field share a data dump and they decide to give me they've been working at a company for 15 months and they give me 10 bullets.
Mitch Lederman: 10 bullets and then the previous position that they were at five years, they give me two bullets and I see that I go wow.
Mitch Lederman: This is really great that in 12 months or 15 months, you were able to do five times as much as what you didn't have company in five years.
Mitch Lederman: Because people just get lost, and they start writing down their job descriptions consensus that it's got to be very focused and very targeted.
Mitch Lederman: Everywhere it's all about the message you've got to send me a message i've got to walk away from that 7.9 seconds going I got to talk to this person.
Mitch Lederman: that's it that's the only reason you're doing resume is to get to that point.
Mitch Lederman: They want to see results over accolades i've seen so many resumes to with people put I received the handshake Award for this one and I received this award and things like that that's Nice.
Mitch Lederman: If it's a big own award you know, like maybe you want a company person of the year award that's great, but when you got a monthly award.
Mitch Lederman: You know what a lot of people start saying that's a dime a dozen and things like that it sort of cheapens it a little bit, but it will also take some really valuable real estate so focus on your resume focus on quantifiable outcomes.
Mitch Lederman: Now let me circle back before I said about using the word estimated proximate or about if you don't have numbers.
Mitch Lederman: If you or exactly if you absolutely have no numbers man I don't remember number or sometimes we do things that you can't exactly.
Mitch Lederman: calculate numbers on then we go qualitative we talk about qualitative savings to something.
Mitch Lederman: This reduce the time to close the accounting books each month boom I something that I need closure, because I need to know that there was a purpose behind why you did something and I need to know the reason that you did it.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so results can be qualitative when numbers aren't available technical skills we integrated into bullets so many technical people's resumes what I see is this big block that says technical skills.
Mitch Lederman: And then they list software a list programs they list hardware they list all their certifications.
Mitch Lederman: there's no contacts I don't know how you use these I don't know if you use them in a good way.
Mitch Lederman: I don't know your level of competency, but if you integrate though integrate those into your bullets to show how you use Python.
Mitch Lederman: How you scrubbed a million records set.
Mitch Lederman: What tools you use things like that that's what's important, so I would rather see them integrated into the bullets than just standing alone because remember the ETS doesn't care, the applicant tracking system doesn't care where you put it.
Mitch Lederman: You can put it, you know, on the back, page, as long as it can see it in the file that's all it's doing is looking at counting.
Mitch Lederman: So make sure they're integrated enough standalone interests are important people ask me, sometimes, why do you have is put the interests in our activities on the on the bottom section of a resume.
Mitch Lederman: Because those sometimes the ice breakers Oh, I see your rock climber, I rock climb Oh, I see you ran to half marathons i've run half marathons or I see you're into tango dancing hey i'm a tango dancer or something like that.
Mitch Lederman: Plus companies want to see that you're well rounded they don't want just that technical Lee oriented person which gets us back to this is a little sidebar here.
Mitch Lederman: don't think that if you have a four oh, and you put on your resume that that's going to be an automatic door opener.
Mitch Lederman: Because, in fact, several clients this year just in them on some boards them on nationally, we even that topic came up and some companies such as T mobile.
Mitch Lederman: came out with this and I forget there was another large one, two and said we don't want four rows because to us, or for oh.
Mitch Lederman: Maybe someone who spent all their time in school studying and they didn't participate in the other activities and things like that the extracurriculars.
Mitch Lederman: Our competitions, you know and things like that, so they don't necessarily see that as a big big plus from get your interest unless this is sometimes better.
Mitch Lederman: i've seen people squeeze it down i've tried to go down to an 8.5 7.5 is back now let me tell you, when a human starts reading it, they can only comprehend so much.
Mitch Lederman: We want it to look Nice, which is why we gave you the template we did, which has enough white space in it all right questions questions about that.
Mitch Lederman: Anybody who has reviewed resumes and is hiring does this resonate with you.
Swanson J, Charles: Yes.
Mitch Lederman: Who said yes.
Swanson J, Charles: I did this is Charles.
Mitch Lederman: Charles great tell us what you look for in a resume.
Swanson J, Charles: Well, I first looked to make sure, as you do, to make sure everything's structured correctly, I mean you have the resumes sloppy the grammar is poor, I think that they're sloppy and i'm.
Swanson J, Charles: reject a lot of resumes that way, and then I look to make sure that the resumes on target and that they actually present the information that's important and in a comprehensible way and.
Swanson J, Charles: If it's a struggle to read the resume I just move on good.
Mitch Lederman: You know the key word I heard, and thank you, Charles didn't say was any comprehensible way.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, I have to be able to absorb it and quickly pull together the story of who this person is great Thank you so much for that Charles much appreciated.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so let's talk about our your bullets evaluated let's talk about a non value added bullet oh I lead a client facing assignment on site at client location for six months.
Mitch Lederman: Does this tell me anything.
Mitch Lederman: nope at most and tells me is they know how to find the directions to a client site.
Mitch Lederman: And they got there safely every day and returned home that's it i'm being sarcastic but that's all it tells me.
Mitch Lederman: doesn't tell me anything else I don't know anything about leadership or other things so let's try a value, one I directed a team of five on site at the client in cleaning and analyzing a 1 million record database.
Mitch Lederman: We remove duplicate and non verifiable data about 8% while optimizing zoom the sets to improve sales projections and forecasting models accuracy by 12% now, what do I know about the person.
Mitch Lederman: Where did I learn him that Wilson, sir.
Wilson Pineda: Yes, ma'am that's a good point and.
Wilson Pineda: um, I would like to ask you this us to put in a lot of context of these bullet point will reach to a point there's gonna be too clunky to marsh and people would throw in like to read, I mean, I just want to see what is a balance between explaining explaining too much, can you answer that.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so a rule of thumb in a resume is most bullet should be two lines you can go anywhere from one to three lines never go more than three lines in the bullet, but sometimes you have to go three lines.
Mitch Lederman: When we show them up here on the PowerPoint it does sometimes look a little bit larger than it is, but this would be a two line bullet.
Mitch Lederman: Most likely, this would be a two line but um you probably don't have enough room to give them too much information if you're sticking to the two to three lines.
Wilson Pineda: fans make sense.
Mitch Lederman: But I gotta tell you, if you're doing a one line bullet be really, really careful because there's not a lot, you can put on one line Okay, there really is not, which is why I favor mostly I would rather see three or four two to three line bullets than seven or eight one and two line bullets.
Wilson Pineda: i'm sorry i'm sorry for for asking more question, but how many bullet points you think is good, I mean, I just want to have a balance between detail, make sure you pass information, but do you on over you know or do.
Wilson Pineda: That and then the person is brilliant there is so much information.
Mitch Lederman: Well there's no set set rule of thumb but part of it is based upon.
Mitch Lederman: How much experience you have at that company and I gave the example earlier, you know if you're one year at a company you got 10 bullets.
Mitch Lederman: that's way too many, and if you're five to seven years of the company and you only have one or two bullets that's not enough bullish so you got to have that balance.
Mitch Lederman: But what's most important, the way to measure it is do I have the right bullets that are sending the message that is a direct hit telling them I am.
Mitch Lederman: Very qualified and can add all the value, you need in the role that i'm applying for.
Mitch Lederman: And you won't know that till you see the role you're applying for so for one company, you may put for experience X five bullets for another company, you may put for experience X three bullets.
Mitch Lederman: Because you have to shift it to another position that has more relevant or less relevant experience, so this is why i'll circle way back to the beginning.
Mitch Lederman: yeah it's really difficult to get away with just one version of your resume it's just really, really difficult it's got to be tailored.
Mitch Lederman: quite good, and now let's look so let's look at another one presented data analysis of product sales trends to senior management to show them where sales reform through what do I know about this person.
Mitch Lederman: Anybody.
Mitch Lederman: You thinking about hiring this person could they do anything for you.
David Purkiss: It can run PowerPoint.
Mitch Lederman: You know I don't know about PowerPoint that's a good gas that's a good guess, because you said, the presented before all I know they drew it out with a crayon on.
Mitch Lederman: Because I have to see PowerPoint somewhere else, but then you're right, it does show they probably know how to use PowerPoint books Okay, who doesn't know how to use PowerPoint today.
Mitch Lederman: And please if you don't don't raise your hand we don't need any volunteers for that question.
Mitch Lederman: i'd rather you just kept it says Okay, but let's look at this one here, wrote queries and utilized R and Python to gather and analyze product sells and buyer characteristics for startup online retailer.
Mitch Lederman: determine that about 25% of male visitors and 50% of all visitors age 40 plus will leaving the site at the point of shipping without completing a transaction.
Mitch Lederman: Do I know a little bit more about this person Now I know how they did the trend analysis and they know they got results.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, and those are results that if anybody is in the retail world will know those are very key and important metrics that an e commerce and online retailer is going to want to know.
Mitch Lederman: So if I look at the first one versus the second one it's like night and day, these are two different people.
Mitch Lederman: yeah it could be the exact same person so want to make sure our bullets are evaluated okay um For those of you 10 plus years.
Mitch Lederman: Okay we'll talk about the executive summary For those of you less than 10 years we'll also talk about the executive summary for when you reach the 10 years.
Mitch Lederman: 10 years some guests it's not a magic number, some people who have seven years experience put an executive summary and.
Mitch Lederman: Some people who wait until they have 1015 years experience but typically earlier in your career, you really don't have enough experience to put an executive summary there.
Mitch Lederman: But what is it, this is the most, the key to take away from this is all or nothing.
Mitch Lederman: If I see a resume that has an executive summary i'm going to guarantee you that's all i'm going to read.
Mitch Lederman: i'm not going to read anything else i'm not going to look below at the company bullets and things like that.
Mitch Lederman: Because if they're doing it, they better be able to sell me with that that executive summary, so I have worked with a number of small seasoned professionals and when we go through that.
Mitch Lederman: I would say it's about split evenly half of them get rid of their executive summary and half of them revise it and bring it to something that's really potent.
Mitch Lederman: But it is, it is the marquee banner, it is everything that has to say Mitch you don't even need to read another word you got to talk to me.
Mitch Lederman: And things like that So be careful about the executive summaries, you need to tailor it to the specific specifics of each company I can't tell you how many how many executive summaries start with.
Mitch Lederman: hard working or detail oriented executive with 15 years experience in oil and gas.
Mitch Lederman: How many people you think could say that, in the world.
Mitch Lederman: Too many doesn't grab me doesn't do anything doesn't tell me anything, and then they say proven and strong interpersonal and communication skills.
Mitch Lederman: Right does that differentiate me from anybody know because nobody's going to put in their summary or I have no skills in interpersonal communications, so we gotta stay away, be very.
Mitch Lederman: Careful if you do this, that you don't go generic make me fall in line with you so you're going to show your value it's got to be easy to understand and digest.
Mitch Lederman: I put that in there, because some people just write a big paragraph a six line paragraph very difficult for the brain to absorb very difficult to comprehend.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, maybe you put a line or two a banner a headline and then you put in three bullets.
Mitch Lederman: Everything has to be easily digestible chunks and by the brain or something like that tie your skills and experiences together and paragraphs or bullets short paragraphs okay.
Mitch Lederman: If you do an executive summary don't start your resume writing it with the executive summary do everything else in your resume then write the executive summary.
Mitch Lederman: Because the executive summary has to be supported by everything underneath.
Mitch Lederman: So it's not something you sit there and go Oh, let me write the summary and then i'll create my bullets and everything else, no goes the other way you have it's the roof on your House you can't put the roof up so you got your foundation your photos your foundation in.
Mitch Lederman: Your framing is in drywall installation home and things of that, then you have the House that supports that I may not have gone in the exact order building House but you'll know what I mean.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so what it is not as overly detailed it's not a direct repetition of information found in your resume.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, any questions on summaries from those of you who may have ventured into this murky land.
David Purkiss: You have any examples of executive summaries.
Mitch Lederman: Oh, probably somewhere yeah I actually do.
Mitch Lederman: You know what let me stop my share for a moment, so I can go into a folder i'm actually going to share one with you that I worked on for a long time was an emba.
Mitch Lederman: Let me describe that one.
Mitch Lederman: i'm going to i'm going to read it to you because I can't.
Mitch Lederman: i'm you I prefer I can't show this to you because it will give away some of the students, you know who the student business so forth, but i'm opening it up here okay so here.
Mitch Lederman: Let me this is, this is what we worked on, and this was an executive summary from a an individual in oil and gas and supply chain.
Mitch Lederman: So it started with influential and visionary leader delivering effective operations and maximize results through insightful mentorship and development of TEAM members skills experiences and motivations.
Mitch Lederman: creates accountability and teams through smart and measurable goals and metrics you know what I just thought of something, let me do this.
Mitch Lederman: alone i'm going to be able to put it up on my screen i'll just get rid of everything else, I have the same Okay, give me a second i'm going to make it a little larger and then we re share my screen okay let's do this go back to screen share for you guys boom okay y'all can see it now.
Mitch Lederman: This was an oil and gas supply chain executive okay.
Mitch Lederman: Dr financial performance through integration of p&l components across multiple disciplines in corporate pricing strategy sales metrics product mix alignment vying with internal resources and capabilities to optimize performance.
Mitch Lederman: disciplined execution of strategies and goals okay differentiate symptoms from root cause problems.
Mitch Lederman: execute deep dive analysis of complex problems expertise and leading teams to break them down into components to identify gaps and processes.
Mitch Lederman: leads to identify localizing globalized record positions does that tell you a little bit about this person as a leader and what they're able to do.
David Purkiss: So I don't see any real results and i'm just wondering, so I guess the executive summary differs a little bit from the body and that you don't put you know numbers metric you.
Mitch Lederman: Can you can put numbers up there, but.
Mitch Lederman: All in this case for this individual there were a ton of numbers underneath that if you looked at those numbers, you said Okay, I see how he drove financial performance.
Mitch Lederman: Oh, I see how they identified the root cause issues and came up with savings and things like efficiencies and things like that you can, but what you got to be careful, is is making the executive summary.
Mitch Lederman: Look too much like a bullet in your body present people say Oh, they just cut and paste so there's a balancing act there he chose to not do the numbers appear because he had a ton of numbers beneath.
Mitch Lederman: But if you're having a conversation with this person would this be enough to say to you, you know I really want to get to know now more of the details about them.
Mitch Lederman: What are their we're problem solvers look at the analysis they've led looked at the mentorship and things like that so that's the executive summary this took I want roughly say about two months them to create.
Mitch Lederman: It there was a deep dots I should have kept all the versions of it just to watch it as it was evolving and, as he was thinking about who he is.
Mitch Lederman: And what he brings to the table okay.
Mitch Lederman: So let's do that so let's go away from that and now let's go back to our presentation okay.
Mitch Lederman: So let's recap every word on your resume everyone should give the prospective employer a reason to hire or to interview.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, this piece of paper, whether it's one or two pages, is the most valuable paper you own for your career.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so you want to make sure it's chock full of value and no waste wasted work achievements and accomplishments i'm going to hire you for that.
Mitch Lederman: And one size does not fit all every resume has to be tailored to the specifics of the organization and the opportunity Okay, let me take a sidebar and answer so, how would I know what's important to the hiring manager in that position in the position i'm applying for how would I know.
Wright, Beth: Really, read the job description.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, you can read the job description if you're lucky and it's the one out of 100 companies that actually know how to write a job description, but okay that's good what else.
Luthman Jr., Nick: check the company's linkedin page.
Mitch Lederman: Companies linkedin page Okay, it might tell you give you more about the company.
shadi kilani: yeah this three standards and norms.
Mitch Lederman: what's that.
shadi kilani: Industry standards.
Mitch Lederman: And once you standards and norms okay good These are all good.
Mitch Lederman: Just one they really.
Fireman, Karen: What about three ways, what about the company's website and and their annual report.
Mitch Lederman: yeah but how's that going to tell me what the expected outcomes from this position are.
Leiah Wyckoff: And this is a.
Leiah Wyckoff: Look at.
Leiah Wyckoff: Reviews from people who work at a company.
Mitch Lederman: yeah Okay, those are good to these are all really good but they're like the second tier.
Kendall Sizemore: i'll tell you how to.
Mitch Lederman: talk to people at the company and try to talk to people in that department, and if you can get to someone you have a conversation with them and say.
Mitch Lederman: what's the measure of success, what do you guys trying to do in your department what's the expected outcomes of the group.
Mitch Lederman: of me in this role and things like that, and if you can do those in advance the networking you'd be able to write a resume that shows them and as they're reading it going oh my God.
Mitch Lederman: This is exactly what we're looking for looking for someone who can get these outcomes, because at the end of the day, they want, are they hiring you because you can do a task, or are they hiring you because you're going to get results.
Mitch Lederman: Which one who votes for tasks.
Mitch Lederman: Who those results.
Mitch Lederman: it's about results, so I gotta go I gotta know but that's a whole nother one the networking okay questions before we're going to run through an example i'm about to hit you with the way best, or at least I think the best way to create you both.
Wilson Pineda: I think there was a question they charge a professor Mitch.
Mitch Lederman: Okay um Can somebody read it to me if you don't mind.
Wright, Beth: yeah I asked it, so I work for a public company and sometimes the work that I do has material impact on outcomes, so I don't want to over share do you want to like speak to the value, especially if it's really high value So how do you balance that.
Mitch Lederman: So you don't want to give specific numbers.
Wright, Beth: Well, I don't know if I can write, because if it's a if it's a public company I don't want to be giving people information they shouldn't have access to.
Mitch Lederman: Well yeah you're right, and if it was financials and you will put on your resume something about that a project, you did is going to boost ups for 2022 by 5% you right.
Mitch Lederman: Then, probably be a no, no, but if you were working in operations and you.
Mitch Lederman: reconfigured the manufacturing process that reduce the downtime by 2% it's not a secret.
Mitch Lederman: I don't think that's a secret.
Mitch Lederman: Because if just about anybody who's a good operations leader could probably say they did something like that, but if there's a balancing act.
Mitch Lederman: Our consultants run into issues with nda that's usually the area if you're a consultant you gotta be careful of mbas.
Mitch Lederman: The way around it is, is just don't give any discernible or way for anyone to discern who the client is.
Mitch Lederman: Maybe you know what I mean you just say something on fortune 500 companies don't even give the industry okay fortune 500 company, nobody can say.
Mitch Lederman: You gave away my company secrets because, like I know it was you, it was a point 2% chance that it was you, is is 500 of you in the fortune 500 good question up great.
Mitch Lederman: Alright star, we all know, we're all familiar with star right or girlfriend situation task action and results.
Mitch Lederman: Oh yes, no.
Mitch Lederman: You should have all seen it and be using it okay.
David Purkiss: Yes, yes.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, good Thank you so we're going to use the star method to create a resume bullet.
Mitch Lederman: That you're crazy that's only for interviews no it's not it's for anything you do to think about how you have produced results, you should be thinking in the star format.
Mitch Lederman: This is the situation, this is what they asked me to do this is the actions that took and here's the results so i'm going to walk you through a star story I created for myself.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so the situation was writing this out and I wrote it exactly this way.
Mitch Lederman: The student plumber trade at a national tech career college, before going to seven years before I came on board actually that's why they brought me on board.
Mitch Lederman: senior management had no idea why this was occurring and then no means in place to identify what was successful and what was not successful at over 140 campuses nationwide well here's the problem.
Mitch Lederman: i'm now laying out I there was a problem that i'm going to solve.
Mitch Lederman: What was I task list I was tasked to create a standardized process to review the career management activities identify opportunities for improvement and implement initiatives to.
Mitch Lederman: increase the employment success rates vary employment rates will dropping nobody knew why hey bring mention down to go fix it figure it out fix it boom that's it short and sweet couple of lines each now you expect the action is going to be a lot bigger.
Mitch Lederman: and better be because that's why they're hiring me they're hiring for me what I didn't from where I thought.
Mitch Lederman: Okay i'm sorry if this is a little bit hard to see but there's a lot but i'll walk you through it, so what is my action well I created an action plan with the goal of identifying current programming.
Mitch Lederman: capture the activity within each assess the effectiveness by each campus and develop campus plans and create a monitoring system.
Mitch Lederman: i'm going to instead of reading this i'm going to just tell you how the story, I did basically what I did then was ice we sat down and created a monster monster.
Mitch Lederman: spreadsheet at that time that track every single activity of career Center day, so if a an individual Kristen to pick up the phone and made a cold call.
Mitch Lederman: To an employer we track.
Mitch Lederman: How many calls did they make did it get answered or not, if they left a message that they get a response back if they didn't they had a conversation with the person.
Mitch Lederman: didn't lead to another call or to a meeting if there was a meeting that lead to follow up meetings or delete to the company saying.
Mitch Lederman: hey i'll work with you to hire your graduates if they said they would hire our graduates that they actually follow through give us job orders.
Mitch Lederman: If they gave us job orders did we have the right students to apply if students implied that they get calls from interview if they call for an interview did they get an offer if they got an offer, did they accepted.
Mitch Lederman: Every single step was done and that was done for every activity, so if somebody went to a career, fair and they met somebody at a booth or something one of our we met an employer boom we track every single thing.
Mitch Lederman: And then, what we did was we were able to look and see the conversion rates every single step of the way and we saw who was really good on the front end and who was really good on the back end.
Mitch Lederman: And then, when we started cross pollinating and training people and having them say wow this person at this campus was a monster unbelievable in cold calling.
Mitch Lederman: let's go train everybody else, what are you doing it you're so good on cold phone this other person was really great on interview prep.
Mitch Lederman: Because they were getting a lot of people who are interviewing we're getting offers let you go help schools in the campuses where they weren't.
Mitch Lederman: Being a successful and we did that, and then we created this and then I put it into um well i'll go into the into the results of it, but we tested it then.
Mitch Lederman: We had 140 campuses and tested it and regional level, which is about 13 campuses or so on a regional level and we saw with the bugs what and we got it ready to go.
Mitch Lederman: That was the actions, basically, it was.
Mitch Lederman: um it's a we call it a pva plan versus actual there was a conversion, so we knew every single thing that would happen at every campus Okay, and how effective they were, and they were probably 15 steps in there.
Mitch Lederman: Now you can imagine that was going to be pretty cumbersome though right I gotta tell you this was many years ago, and this spreadsheet.
Mitch Lederman: Had dozens of tabs and other things there, it was cumbersome so At first it was resistance force is going to be resistance hey Mitch you're micromanaging me.
Mitch Lederman: Well yeah because we have to because you weren't really doing your job right but I couldn't tell them that we were micromanaging for their own good, to find out what's going on okay what's this so I worked with.
Mitch Lederman: leadership in it, because there was so much that they had to do so that we were able to integrate this big spreadsheet program into our CRM so now they didn't have to put data into two places they can put it into the CRM which they were doing anyway.
Mitch Lederman: And it fed rough flowed right through we saw over around three to six months we saw a three to 5% increase in employment, employment rates.
Mitch Lederman: And people were able to see in real time how well they were doing, and so, if they were when they started lagging in something.
Mitch Lederman: They weren't doing they previous to do well, and they were able to go in and investigate it and they were able to retrain people and things like that that was the result so i've got four slides here.
Mitch Lederman: You think I can create one bullet out of that.
Mitch Lederman: Of course, they can improve student apple comes by three to 5% across a multi campus population of 60,000 students.
Mitch Lederman: created a first stab because it was the first ever plan versus actual that provided macro and micro real time views.
Mitch Lederman: So the big picture and we saw them a new shift that conversion rates staff from all the way from employer relations and engagement to student acceptance.
Mitch Lederman: What does that tell if if you're looking for somebody to come into your career Center to fix it because it's broken you're going to say this guy knows how to do it.
Mitch Lederman: He fixed it he knows how to do it boom let's talk to him Mitch tell me more details about it sure, let me tell you the situation, and then I would roll it in Okay, how did I get here how did I get from those four slides to this anyone want to guess.
Mitch Lederman: I basically used one key for most of the time one camera keyboard you know which one it was.
Luthman Jr., Nick: leaky.
Mitch Lederman: The delete key to thank you know.
Mitch Lederman: Honestly, I had this whole day I just started deleting I don't need this sentence I don't need dismiss it and I can't I was left with this big mass of words, and I said okay I gotta start putting in some.
Mitch Lederman: prepositions and other things I gotta start making it look right, but I just started deleting stuff and look what I came up with, and there is my bullet.
Mitch Lederman: But now the reason I say this is effective, is I wouldn't have come up with this bullet if I didn't write the story out.
Mitch Lederman: Because I would have been sitting there trying to figure out what should my bullet say, while i'm in my head trying to replay the story, but by writing the story out, it was there, the words were there, all I had to do was rearrange the words.
Mitch Lederman: Is it time consuming yeah yep it's very time consuming I gotta be honest with you it's very time consuming.
Mitch Lederman: But I found this to be the most effective way, because you want, you know what the bonus of doing this is.
Mitch Lederman: You got all your stories, for your interviews and for your networking events and things like that she killed two three birds with one stone and you really get to know yourself, you really get to learn a lot about yourself.
Mitch Lederman: So.
Mitch Lederman: Let me ask questions.
Mitch Lederman: takeaways thoughts.
Amanda DePelsMaeker: Is it bad to use sub bullets.
Mitch Lederman: know if they're used properly, know and sometimes you have to do that we, the reason we don't allow them in our maze templates is.
Mitch Lederman: Because we use a somewhat standard format that most business schools around the country use.
Mitch Lederman: And therefore recruiters who are recruiting from you know all different schools it's easier for them to visually they know exactly where to look and things like that, but no, you can and, sometimes, especially if you have a lot of projects, you might have to use some bold.
Mitch Lederman: but be careful, the thing about stubble it says, as you keep in denting in you get less than less than you could say on that line because you keep starting shifting over to the right.
Mitch Lederman: that's a great question.
Jim Clark: Is a question about yes, a little bit off the mark is.
Jim Clark: Some of us have our backgrounds and linkedin.
Jim Clark: And you know, is designed to let you say look i've been done, but if you're wanting your resume to be something that could that could transfer from one industry to another really you it's hard to make it that generic.
Jim Clark: With with what you're talking about so you almost need to do less than more, because what i'm thinking about my linkedin profile, because the more you say the morning pigeonhole yourself.
Mitch Lederman: Well, the more you say that is only industry specific, the more you pigeonhole yourself, you know, one of the most interesting.
Mitch Lederman: students to work with other geologists because they have great.
Mitch Lederman: analytical skills, but they're certainly love talking about the geological terms.
Mitch Lederman: And you know when I first sit down with them even me with my engineering background my head just started blowing up and things like that.
Mitch Lederman: But then when you you work through it, you find out that they can actually put together great cases of how they do analysis and then the problem is, they have to just take it to that somebody does doesn't get lost in all these technical terms.
Mitch Lederman: At the underneath every one of us is a foundation of skills there's a core layer of skills that we all have and then what we've done is, we have put on top of that industry and functions.
Mitch Lederman: You want to bring it a little bit more to the core skills, with specific examples.
Connors, Ryan: So, are you saying that then the technical skills section should be eliminated from from resumes completely.
Mitch Lederman: I am and i'm not okay there's a whole debate on that whole issue of putting tables for you know skills and things like that to me if you're going to put a table in and you're going to list five programs that you use.
Mitch Lederman: If you keep the table in which is okay, I still want to see those five programs in at least one bullet.
Mitch Lederman: Because otherwise I don't know, maybe it's just a course you took you took a course in that program great doesn't show you can do anything with it, I want to see actionable use of your skills and then the results.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, I personally am not a big fan of those if I was going to do a technical skills, I would probably.
Mitch Lederman: Make it into a hybrid bullet and if I left so if I had a program X and we didn't put a verbiage about how I used it.
Mitch Lederman: Just so that someone could see that i'm not just listening because i've seen people list 20 programs are you telling me you're an expert in 20 programs, maybe one person is, but most of the people they just say well i'm going to just throw all these programs on it.
Mitch Lederman: But if you know what the key drivers off for the company and the and what leads to the outcomes and you know that you should be able to tell your resume right to that opportunity.
Mitch Lederman: But it takes work don't get me wrong i'm not being careless with your time it takes work.
Mitch Lederman: just why it's always good to have the resume ready before you start a job search.
Wright, Beth: And I know there are some students who maybe are pivoting from another field in their work coming into analytics maybe they haven't had the opportunity to use the tools we've learned in class in at work so would it be okay to like listen class projects you used.
Wright, Beth: For them.
Wright, Beth: Or how would you yeah.
Mitch Lederman: yeah no that's a good point oh yeah I we have that a lot mbas and msn analytics because they're more seasoned professionals who are making pivots.
Mitch Lederman: sometimes have to go to projects either they go to class projects or they go to competitions and they have to describe those because you may have a tool that you never used in your prayer life.
Mitch Lederman: And you're now using it and use it in the project, you need to show me that that's showing me, you know I say the same thing, people who go for certifications this.
Mitch Lederman: i'm going to get the certification I go good, but you got to show me you used it, because otherwise all it is, is a piece of paper you sat through a class you paid someone X dollars and they gave you a stamp.
Mitch Lederman: I want to see that you used it.
Mitch Lederman: Good point, thank you.
Lee Rainwater: I think that one thing that you can do if you're trying to make a pivot, which is something that i've recently done here.
Lee Rainwater: Is look at the skills that you've had in the past, particularly if they are analytical in nature in and i'm speaking particularly to the audience of classmates here, look at things you've done there your analytical in nature.
Lee Rainwater: Perhaps kind of break them down so that they're not so specifically.
Lee Rainwater: Mentioning.
Lee Rainwater: Specific type things that you did in your previous career but.
Lee Rainwater: be able to illustrate the fact that you did things that were analytical that you were able to gather data that you were able to process data and analyze it presented in such a way that people were able to make decisions based upon that data things like that.
Mitch Lederman: yep well that's great absolutely absolutely Let me close out with this, because I know appreciate at seven o'clock and respect the next Professor time.
Mitch Lederman: For those of you who am making pivots the larger and more significant to pivot you're making the morning company, it is incumbent is it is on you.
Mitch Lederman: To be networking and talking to people to actually minimize the need for the resume and, if so, if you're making a large pivot.
Mitch Lederman: If you network properly, you could hand your resume to this person on a napkin the old proverbial on a napkin and it'll still be okay, because they got to know you because sometimes again it's just a piece of paper and there's just so much we can put in.
Mitch Lederman: All right, well, I thank everybody for your time great questions great thoughts I appreciate your insights and you know if you guys have any further questions i'm up here just an email away shoot me an email and we'll figure out a time to get together.
Mitch Lederman: Alright, everyone stay safe enjoy the rest of class and the weekend coming up shortly take care.
Lee Rainwater: Thank you.
Wright, Beth: Thank you so much.
Jim Clark: Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: me.
Fireman, Karen: right away, or do we have a few minutes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It could take a few minutes if you'd like we're probably going to go longer than nine o'clock tonight, though, so just to put that bug in your ear.
MS Analytics Class 2021: About ready to go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to start off with a little review, so if anyone comes into a little late they won't miss any of the material that's new.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Someone taking all the way back to the first lesson I introduced the idea of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Mathematical optimization problem and I tried to describe how I used the terminology model in this class because it may be different than what you're used to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: means in this context, a mathematical optimization problem that is designed to represent a business problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We talked about the different elements of mathematical optimization problem where model, that being the decision variables, the objective function and constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With the notion of solving an admirer of optimization problem was coming up with an optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I didn't mention that there could potentially be multiple optimal solutions, but the job of the solver is just to find an optimal solution separate question is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Might there be alternate optimal solutions, but we should kind of concentrate on making sure we know how to solve the models first.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The way that we build the model is through an ongoing dialogue with the profit model compiler and we use declaration statements to describe our model to the compiler.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We saw that they were also later on other types of declaration statements that kind of helped us tell the compiler how we were going to organize and store data, but at first, we were just using declaration statements to establish model elements.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and simple functionality of the print statement to get some of the results out we'll see there's more nuance to the print statement in the second half of the class tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So for a mathematical optimization problem or model, the feasible region is the set of all the points that are feasible, so the points that satisfy the constraints and in some small examples we saw what that looked like in small in like a two dimensional space.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In particular, in the last class we looked at a linear programming problem and it's feasible region look like a Polygon in two dimensions or pilots open in three dimensions and higher dimensional analogs of that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It is possible that there are no points that satisfy all the constraints and that results in if you did some of the suggested exercise and in feasible solution status when you run the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If the problem is feasible, then it has these special extreme point solutions and here i'm talking specialized about models that have linear constraints models of nonlinear constraints can be more complicated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If we just say solve it's going to use the default settings of you know, in our case, now that the LP or linear programming solver.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If we want to drill down to make some choices for our own, we can say solve with LP and then specify solver options and I talked about a couple of solver options.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The primary one being algorithm or we could choose a non default algorithm to solve the model or problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the other one we talked about was log freak, which is the frequency of reporting to the iteration log, which is what we see when we open up the SAS log towards the end they were other silver options, but they were a little bit more specific, for example, we talked about the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The program is based on non linear methods and had a crossover option, but that option is not for all algorithms.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'll show you a little later on how you can get a listing of all of the available salver options and their values and which ones are user defined, but for now, these are the primary ones that you would want to use for linear programming models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when we first looked at this furniture making problem formulated it using explicitly named variables and went into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: actually look at the code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I introduced this new idea.
MS Analytics Class 2021: of an implicit variable which calculate intermediate quantities.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm going to show you kind of an updated slide of the modeling process that incorporates those.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't try so again the same picture start with the business problem come up with a model as an mathematical optimization problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then solve it come up with an optimal solution and then that gets sent off to the minions to implement, so the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are kind of numeric representations of the decisions that we have to make.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that when you look at the numeric values of the decision variables that corresponds to certain actions to take, and it may be like a one to one correspondence like how many units to produce have some substance.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it could also be like a binary like a go no go decision, do we close this plan or not closest plan.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the implicit variables, are these intermediate measures are scores that are calculated from the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can use them to build up complicated expressions on a step by step basis, we can also use them for reporting the constraints capture restrictions or requirements that determine whether a solution is going to be implementable, or we say feasible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we bound functions of the decision variables and or the implicit variable so that's that's different than what we had at first.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And our objective is the goal of the business problem finding the best value of an objective function of the decision variables and or the implicit variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But because the implicit variables are defined in terms of the decision variables really does all the back to the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: updated picture of that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: review now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: see my instructions were turn it on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: looks like it's turned on but it doesn't seem to want to cooperate that's all right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Before, though.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well we'll see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No, not as such.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To be pointing at something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This thing is green.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so we're going to go back to the old fashioned arrows but since i'm kind of an old school guy work just fine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So just a few.
MS Analytics Class 2021: By way of review some things that we touched on in the last class we use the declaration statements for parameters parameter is an index sets as a way to kind of carve out space for our data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We were initializing those values, but today we'll see how to read those values from SAS data sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because many things in a pocket model program are presented by SAS names and SAS things are not case sensitive we have various naming conventions which help us determine whether we're looking at an assassin have a parameter or a decision variable and plus it variable and objective.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So specialized two parameters and parameter arrays num is a declaration statement for numerical parameter or parameter rate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: selling price is in lowercase it's the name of a parameter products is an uppercase it's the name of a set so this would just indicate that there is, if you want to think of it in visual terms space out there in memory to store the selling price of any product right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is an example of the use of an equality sign to initialize our data we can either initialize it in a declaration statement.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or you can use an assignment statement to set the value and this would be setting a particular selling price desk would be one of our products in the set of products products, in this case to be a set of strings this is harkening back to the furniture making problem we talked about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then, in applying this idea of using index sets to organize our data we applied the same idea to the model elements model elements being decision variables implicit variables and constraints, and so we grouped organized our model elements indexing them by these index sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And for things like decision variables is pretty straightforward and you can think of it as kind of like a bank of cells and an excel spreadsheet but then, once we moved on to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Implicit variables constraints and objective needed a way to express.
MS Analytics Class 2021: combinations of terms of the decision variables, and for that I introduced this some aggregation operator.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we talked about how it fits in with the other operators were used to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A some expression will involve a local dummy parameter to the construct is local dunny parameter in index set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is a very common expression in pocket model will see that a lot of things use that same structure, not just adding terms of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But defining an array to depend on an index or any kind of repetitive tasks that we're going to do so it's kind of like a loop we do something for each pn products so it's pretty generic structure in pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the defining expressions for implicit variables for constraints and for objectives are referred to as variable expressions just means.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That their value depends on the decision variables, so we don't a priori know what their values are their values change as the solver mixes around the values of the decision variables trying to find the best values.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so we have a raise possibly a decision variables implicit variables objectives not quite so common we typically say families have constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's just kind of the language that's used in this area and the last thing I want to touch on is that when we have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A model elements typically we can both print and expanded that's true a decision variables and plus it variables objectives, but not constraints, we can't create a constraint it's got too much going on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: printing This gives us a value and expanding us gives us the kind of definition right so that's the point we were at I wanted to kind of carry the review just a little bit further, by working on a new example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is another example of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of famous canonical operations research problem and it doesn't always just have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Five data points or locations here, but the small example i'm going to use does so we have a set of origins, instead of destinations, we have certain amount that's available at the origin and a certain amount demanded at each destination and the question is how to ship most.
MS Analytics Class 2021: inexpensively given the unit shipping costs for each of these routes and let me show you some some real data well it's not real data real made up data that would work with this picture.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here are our origins Chicago and Detroit and I like to think of this as a barrels of beer there's 200 barrels of beer available in Chicago and there's a demand for beer in Boston New York and Toronto.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And because the shipping unit shipping costs differs for each pair it's not possible to use the cheapest.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Origin destination pair to supply any given destination, because they may all come from the same origin and that origin may not have enough supply to satisfy the demand of all of those and destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can see clearly that the problem is solvable because the supply 350 exceeds the demand of 300, but it may not be obvious how to do the shipping.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, just want to make sure, at first, that we understand what the problem is, you could probably come up with a way to do the shipping that satisfies the constraints that doesn't exceed the supply and satisfies the demand, but it might not be the best it might not be the the cheapest.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the first thing to think about when we see this associated data is how would we organize and store that data inside pocket model and then we'll use that data to build.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The optimization model so we're asking ourselves what sets would we use to index this data and it's pretty clear from the problem description that we want to set of origins and instead of destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now this this table of data looks similar not quite as big as the data table that we had for the furniture making problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's in some ways kind of fundamentally different in character, in that, in the furniture making problem, the decisions were associated with one of the index sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How much to make of each product right as opposed to the transportation problem where there's a decision associated with every origin destination pair right how much do we ship from Chicago to Boston.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So there's a decision associated with with each of these blocks here which corresponds to an origin destination pair so, even though the data may look similar, the problems are fairly distinct.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then, our next step in the pocket mode program the very top of the program is declaring set some parameters.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So declaring the sets similar to what we saw the last time we say set the name is in caps and then we're because we don't know how to read data yet just going to list the members of the set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And here i'm using capitals in my name's in my strings just because we typically do that for city names right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so, then the next step would be figuring out what parameters and parameter arrays we need for the problem and then populating them by initializing them, and this is done in an exercise well, which is called a practice in SAS.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Practice five in less than two and what i'm going to do is i'm just going to work through that exercise, and it will take us through the the formulation of this model to the point where we can solve it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Initially i'm going to go and just set up the parameters and the parameter race.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But then, once I move into the kind of the modeling phase, some of the work has been done, and some of the work will be left us up for us to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, in particular, if you keep this picture in mind we're going to use implicit variables, to help us formulate the problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going to have the flow out of each origin, which is just the total amount shipped out to any destination.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And for the destinations we're going to have this is going to be an array of implicit variables called flow in which is the total amount ship into that destination from various origins so part of our work will be figuring out how to define those implicit variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let me go into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: studio, thank goodness, I don't have to restart it again so let's go into in less than two practices and we'll start off with the first part of the exercise lesson to practice five eight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so so as you've seen if you've done any of these that they all have solution programs so obviously you start with that we open up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of problem file we'll see kind of a partial list of what we need to do so, some of the work has already been done there's origins and destinations in some places, there is just a kind of a block that says a generic index that we want to replace it with a particular index that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So for supply, we want to think about what index that we would want and so pretty evidently suppliers index by origins so i'll just copy and paste that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you look at the data for supply there's a supply of 200 at Chicago and 150 at Detroit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So replace that kind of block it says initializing by 201 50.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Once i've done this i'm going to print them out to double check that they look right i'll compare it to the table that I have on the slide likewise demand by destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'll copy and paste over that generic index it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you look at the table.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You get i'm just doing it in the order that it was declared for the sets for destinations, it will be 5150 and 100.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So those are pretty low hanging fruit, the unit cost is indexed by two sets kind of like required was the furniture making problem there's not a wrong way to do this, but the natural way that we would ordinarily assume is that we want to go from origins to destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we'll do it that way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As long as we consistently index it in the same way, we could have gone destinations to origins, but just seems so wrong.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right now, are initializing is are a little bit weird here because we have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Two dimensional array.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To make it look a little bit more natural I can kind of bring it down here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The first row of the table is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It was the unit costs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For 14 2015.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so some of the automatic kind of pagination is a little irritating here but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's helpful when it's helpful, the second row is 30.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 10 and you can see why we want to learn how to do this from SAS data sets because pretty a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Pretty mind numbing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so I want to make sure that I got the data in the right place, so what i'll do next is i'll just run the program it prints the parameter is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I can look and compare those back against the data that I have in the table and probably the main one, I want to check is this unit costs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: were going from Chicago and Detroit to Boston should be 1430 and it looks like it's getting that right here, the second table looks weird.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because when you when you print supply and demand in the same print statement it was assumed that they have the same index set or similar index sets and so it's combining them to one kind of like super index that if we did it separately, it would have looked more like the data table.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh, so are you on the transcript thing someone is asking turn the transcript on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, maybe because i'm in the DEMO that it's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not there I don't know i'm not I don't pretend to be an expert.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's let's go to the next part we're going to start to build the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it just repeats what we've done for origins and destinations blind demand and so forth, then it's it's it's starting to come up with a decision very roles.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now we had non prod before i'm going to change the name to numb ship, because it makes more sense in this context and again the the shipping goes along origin destination pairs so all use those index sets origin common destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That are non negative, I think that makes sense i'm initializing the 50, even though the solver will ignore the initial values, because when I print the values of some of these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Implicit variables I want us to kind of see is that makes sense, like getting the right expression, and if I have zeros they're almost any combination, I give will give the same answer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i've described here how to calculate flow out so for each origin, I some over the destinations, the ship values okay so that's the total flow, out of a fixed origin something over the destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I want to translate that to the flow into an origin, then I kind of reverse the roles of the sets so flowing should be indexed by destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: notice, I have a local dummy variable in this case it's a Jay instead of an eye because of the role that it plays i'm just gonna be like Robin Hood here steal from the rich and give to the poor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A copy that expression and try and modify it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I basically, I want to to interchange the roles of origins and destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So instead of indexing over I in origins I index over Jane destinations and I some.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Over iron origins.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, if you look back at the picture on the slide, this is a way to encode those pictures and if I got it right when I expand them you'll see and when I print the flow out in the flow in, we can see if those values makes sense okay so let's run that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to creating the problem from scratch that'd be more work than i'm willing to do but i'm filling in some of the blanks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so you can see that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The implicit variable flow out of Chicago is the num ship from Chicago Boston cluster membership from Chicago New York or Chicago Toronto so it's from a fixed origin to all destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Likewise, the flowing from Boston coming in from Chicago and Detroit that looks like it's correct and from our ballpark figures of 50 for everything we should get a flow out of 153 of those arrows and a flow in of 102 arrows to each now, this is not a feasible solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right because there's a demand of 150 and one of our destinations and we're not we're not getting enough barrels of beer, but it gives us confidence that we're defining things in the right way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so finally let's go to the last one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is asking us to take all of that and build the formulation and again it's given us a little bit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: in the sense that it's given us the supply constraint so for each origin, it says that you can't send more out than you have available.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so it makes good common sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the implicit variables help in that respect.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, because you don't have to look at a complicated expression and figure out what it is, if you've already defined it up above and understood what the role at place.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, if we wanted to come up with the demand constraint, again, probably the easiest thing would be to just copy this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and paste it below so i'll do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Who bonus Jonas on the semi colons at the end there, OK, so now, how should we modified.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the first thing to notice that the constraint is defined over the destinations, so our index should match that local dummy variable of J instead of odd so that should change because the constraint is about a particular destination.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, supply doesn't make sense for a destination special probably be demand.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And instead of flow out.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Probably want flow in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're almost ready we've got everything down, but the total cost, so the total cost will sum over the world, this is one does to some over the origins and destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because that's what we have defined the decision variables over so let's go down and put that in if you can make have to put the J back in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I didn't origins Jane destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what's what's the expression so what's the term for a given origin destination pair we would multiply the amount that we ship.
MS Analytics Class 2021: ship.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's numb ship from either J.
MS Analytics Class 2021: times the cost and in our model that's called unit costs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's grab the unit costs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: plop it down here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This shouldn't look right to you at this point because unit costs needs the same square bracket expression that num ship has otherwise it wouldn't make sense for them to multiply against each other okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then i'm going to expand it solve it print, the solution let's try.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so you can see that there were no errors in the log files that went straight to results there's the expand.
MS Analytics Class 2021: shows me the characteristics of my problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The summary i'm starting to get a bad feeling about this and look, the solution is to ship nothing that seems wrong.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what we need to do in this case is, we need to put on our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our bs detector right and say okay well what is wrong about this solution it doesn't seem to be meeting demand, so we go back to our code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We say okay let's look at that demand constraint Oh, instead of saying that we had to meet demand I said, less than or equal to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that was a, if you will, it was a logical air, although I did it on purpose i've seen many students do it, not on purpose with the same error, so now let's try it again let's run our code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this looks like a much more reasonable answer the total shipping cost is about 6000 and you can see here's a pattern that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: shifts 150 out of each origin and meets the demand at Boston New York and Toronto, but you can't look at that and say oh it's obviously the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right there's not a kind of back of the envelope calculation that shows you that, because the algorithm that solved the problem took several steps to find out.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, we may see later that there is, if you understand more of the theory, there is a kind of certificate that this is the best solution right now we'll just take it for granted that the solver found it and it is good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, so that's the kind of preamble.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now this transportation problem is kind of dinky looking right so you're probably not going to solve a lot of two by three logistics models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But let me give you a couple of applications so here's the here's here's the complete view of the modeling process that I just described to you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A couple of applications.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One of them is, if you have a construction site, and you have certain points that are lower elevation and other points that are higher elevations and you want to move.
MS Analytics Class 2021: earth from the higher elevations to lower elevations if it's a large construction site big project like university campus or something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's a transportation problem Okay, instead of barrels of beer removing yards of Earth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Another one is that arises with rental car companies, think of a particular class of rental cars, because at one Ray Rentals you can have an imbalance in the number of cars available at different rental locations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, they have to figure out Okay, if we want to bounce to our target numbers at different locations what's the cheapest way to drive them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You don't want to drive them across the country rather drive them to some close by location that needs the demand but it's not always clear it's not always the closest place that will be shipping from now, the one that's the reason because of the pandemic, which is kind of interesting.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is shipping containers so happens to be an imbalance of shipping containers around the world, at this point, this is kind of a comical picture that represents in a different type of imbalance of shipping containers but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Again, the problem is the same, we have this fixed quantity shipping containers, we have some places that have too many and others that don't have enough.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So they're they're supplying some places in demand in other places, and we want to figure out the best way to ship them, and this is not a two by three problem is could represent a very large problem to solve, but the similar structure of the problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so i'm about to move on and talk about reading data from SAS data set so if you had a large model of this type, we would have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A lot of data is available on the spreadsheet or i'll think of it as a SAS data set there's a SAS procedure that can convert.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A spreadsheet or some other form of data table to a SAS data said it's called proc important i'm not going to talk a lot about that i'm going to assume that our data is in the form of a SAS data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I want to preface the section.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Be brave and try that page advancing now who.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not as such.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, before I want to talk about reading data from SAS data sets I wanted to kind of dispel a thought that you might have about optimization models in general, and that is that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the typical optimization model solves problems with huge amounts of terabytes of data, but runs very quickly that's actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of completely wrong view of the type of problems that are solved by these models, the models tend to have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They may have large datasets for the next huge data sets they're less data intensive and more computing intensive so we find that we use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Maybe a large array of processors, but not because we have an enormous amount of data, but just because the amount of work that goes into solving these models is is what's intensive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so when we look at data sets and they're not enormously huge to be too disappointed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So in this section I want to do a couple of things I want to tell you how to create a local library and SAS studio.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that will kind of give sasa view to your data sets and then we'll talk about reading SAS data sets to populate parameter rays, and those parameters are used to build our our models, which in this case we're thinking of is being linear programming models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so it's not one big data set that represents all the different parts of our model it's many different data sets that populate parameters and parameter arrays and then we use those to build our model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can think of, we have the furniture making problem we have the this new transportation problem and you also have the craft brewing problem from your homework Those are all models that we've already built that we initialize that we could think about reading from SAS data sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So in studio.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we've mainly been in the files and folders area that's where our folder shortcut was that's where our programs live.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At the bottom of that pain on the left, there is a libraries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: area where we can expand and we can see both the kind of default libraries are used in SAS, including the work library, which is a temporary library, where we create SAS data sets that go away at the end of our session.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But where we can also create our own libraries and so there's a new library icon which will use to create a assess library.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And no bring up a little dialogue.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we can type the name of our library, and we can browse location of our data and the main library will use for the course will call ott for optimization.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But we'll have other libraries, you may use the word library, which I said is that temporary library that's kind of specific to your session and then we'll also have a special like libation library for the old star pub and brewery.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we'll have a couple of different libraries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I talked a little bit about this process procedure prop import.
MS Analytics Class 2021: listing here a couple of other ways that you might use SAS Foundation, which is the new speak for what we call it based SAS before.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To help prepare your data and possibly take the output of a pocket model program and convert it to a more convenient.
MS Analytics Class 2021: way to represent the data, so you might say, for example, have a spreadsheet use prop important to get the data in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: create a SAS data set and then maybe use proc export when you were done to create a spreadsheet from your your answer to the number of different SAAs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: procedures that could be used along these lines, and I think Mayra put the like the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The tiny little book of sass that might be a good place, I mean when I wanted to learn how to do something in SAS I just Google it like everyone else, and not too hard to figure things out, they have examples and syntax and so forth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not quite so easy to learn pocket model that way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so let me look at a simple example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is part of a SAS data set that's used in like a simple regression model and another course in SAS.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the data set is called class and I stole it and put it my op library, so the way that that's referred to is up class you see the library before the dot and then the name of the SAS data set afterwards.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's got a little less than 20 observations, so they give for various schoolchildren their height weight and age and their aggression model I think predicts.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Their weight from their height and age, but that's not essential to what we're doing here we're just looking at as a pulling the data into pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to look in a simple example I want to populate parameter raised called height weight and age, presumably to solve some optimization model based on this data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so the syntax for a simple case like this is not overly complicated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The statement is color read data statement keywords you can see here in in in blue so read data into are the key words, the name of the library data set is between data and into okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we have a listing of the numerical columns but preceded by a special column that indexes the data, so, if you look at the data set here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's easy to see that it's the height weight and age of Alfred Alfred is not the name of the number 14 right 14 is the age of Alfred.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the column that index is the data and here i'm going to give you a little professional.
MS Analytics Class 2021: advice is often the one that has character values, not always but typically that's the case so that's a good clue.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That this is the column that indexes the data in pocket model that has a kind of a special role, and it goes in square brackets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For re locations, so it makes some sense, so the name of the SAS data set variable or the new SAS SAS column name goes in the square brackets, so the other ones are no square brackets the numerical columns special column square brackets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The numerical values and height weight and age are going to go into the parameter arrays What about the values in the name column alford Ellis Barbara and Carol.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Will they likely won't go into a character value parameter array what they'll be is they'll be the members of an index set that's used index are other numerical parameter race so that's why you see students here in capital letters because it's a set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so so in context and i'll show you in the demonstration.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Before the Read data statement, we would have to buy prakash models rules have declared the set students and the parameter arrays height weight and age that would already have had to have been done so typically what you find yourself doing is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: declares that's in parameters read data from SAS data sets and then you move into the sections on the model.
Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so frequently i've had people ask me because I only show you part of the data set, because otherwise the the slide would be way too long.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is can you just read those first four rows and you might say, well, who cares Why would I ever want to do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, a couple of reasons, one is, if you want to determine if you're getting the data into the correct that locations it's much easier to just pull in a little bit of the data and then print that and look at it and see if it got into the right place, the other being that oftentimes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a kind of first step in solving a large model, we want to solve a smaller version of the model which you might get by reading just the first.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So many observations well so it's not hard to do if you're a SAS program it should be familiar to you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: SAS has what's called what are called data set options which kind of modify modify your data set so this is, this is the data set up class, but only the first four observations, and so there are other.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data set options, one of the ones that's most useful is where equals, where you can say you know I want all the students who have an A in their name or I want all of the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All of the students whose ages more than 14 okay So there you can use data set options here, so the only change here is that I modified the data set by using a data set option.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm indicating that this is the, this is the actual data set that i'm listening here, which is just says, the first four observations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Of course notes, I think I give you a couple of other examples of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Different data set options that we might use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me go into into SAS studio and we'll look at that example, but first before we can read the data will need to create the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: library, so let me get back in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is going to be a demonstration Program.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In less than two.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's called students.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can see now that here's my read data state and kind of in context so before the Read data statement I had to declare all of the set some parameters.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, students, was the name I used for the data for the for the index set clearly that would be the set that indexes height weight and age.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And because i'm not initializing I need to declare the type of the set and I just need to know that it matches up with my SAS dataset if I put nom instead of str, then I would get an error message and i'd have to figure out what I did wrong.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's start by going to the libraries here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'll expand that this is the new library icon i'm going to click on it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It brings up the dialog box i'm going to type the name ott.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'm going to browse to, and this would be different for you, depending on where you put your course data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Mine is under the or O P 51 course data folder.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In data sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to click OK there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you're like me and you crash us a lot, you want to check this box that says recreate this library at startup.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Otherwise, every time you start a new session you're going to have to redo this whole process so let's say okay i'm planning to do this, one more time for a different library tonight, so if you didn't quite catch it you'll get another chance.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a good good practice here, in addition to just noticing that it has a library they're trying to expand it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and make sure that you see the data sets because if you gave it a funny folder name that didn't have any data sets it would still say up you wouldn't see the class data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it should start with bank offers and board rates will get to those later, but you can see class here, and if you wanted to, for example, you could click on class and it would open up a new tab instead of studio and you could see the associated data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Can we let's go back to students and clear a little space.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's let's run it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not solving optimization problem, the only thing i'm doing is creating a table of the heights weeks and ages of the students she can see here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now for to William but let's make a note of what you can see in the log you can see that it tells me how many observations it read and from what data sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so frequently that sound like verification that you got the data from the right place and you got all the data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that's good let's go back to the code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And let me ask you a kind of a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: way that we might want to kind of modify this so let's say that for Proprietary reasons we weren't allowed to read the student names.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we can't have alfred's public information out there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, God forbid that someone would find out how old Alfred was or how much he weighs or how tall, he is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's likely that the optimization model that we're solving is not going to really, the solution is not going to depend on the names of the students, so we really don't need that information in there, how can we read the same data into proc up model without reading the students names.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me open up the data set, and you can help you think about it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if we weren't using the name column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To index the height and weight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What would an alternative be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What other calling could reuse.
MS Analytics Class 2021: index the data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to throw my house.
Zuberi, Bilal: We can just use dinner oh index.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah so we can we can use this first.
column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this column has a name and sassy well it kind of has a couple of different names, but the name that we want for this is kind of weird name it's called underscore and underscore.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you want to use, then the the the row number we go back to the students.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can change here from name to underscore and underscore.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, will that work or are there other changes dying to make.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, if you're not sure never hurts just run the model right what's the worst that can happen, we get a syntax error.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's try it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't we got a syntax error, so it says the type signature does not match the variables in the data set, what does that mean well in the data sets and numerical column in the code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We declared this type of the set of students to be strings because originally we were using the student names and they were strengths right so that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: going to have to change, so we should say numb that's the logical choice here, we could also because the default type for a set is now, we could also just leave that out it's probably better to be explicit here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I leave that as numb i'm trying to run it again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Eureka I have the same information, I just have it with a different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: different set of indices that doesn't have that proprietary information.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that that's not always going to be available.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It kind of depends on on the on the data set I mean some some data sets have multiple columns that index the data, and that makes it confusing to use the observation number, but in any case it's always a an option to consider.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so let me go back in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is the general syntax of the Read data statement, not all of which was used in the last example to the keywords are the same read data and into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: SAS data set specifies the name and location of the SAS data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have these special columns the index the data they're called riki columns there could potentially be more than one of them, and when we enter them they're surrounded by square brackets right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have a set name, which is a set that will capture the observations in that column or columns and then we have our read columns which are generally the numeric columns in the SAS dataset.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, in a syntax box these tilting over.
MS Analytics Class 2021: square brackets and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No one really great name for them angle brackets maybe they're not duck lips, they indicate, because the metallics, this is an optional part.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So no miss is an optional part that handles missing values, instead of assigning missing values to parameters a parameter arrays it just doesn't assign any value to them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You might think about well what happens when we try and multiply two missing values or subtracting missing value from another missing value could be crazy things happening.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But there are many other parts that are in italicized brackets, so, in fact, if we apply that rule.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm reproducing the syntax box of all the different parts which parts are optional so notice clearly that's optional right because I just mentioned, that it was in italicize breakfast but what about everything else.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will read column seems to be in italicized brackets and set name does, and these these brackets actually include riki columns, and so it turns out that the only thing that's not optional is the name of the SAS data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Clearly wouldn't have an example where you only have the SAS data set because I wouldn't put it wouldn't populate anything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But in the various applications, we have we might have one or the other of these things miss in some cases, we might have a certain name or we might not have read columns.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If we didn't have read key columns, and this is kind of a an outlier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It is designed to read a one observation data set to populate parameters it's an unusual case.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's possible to have an example where we don't have recons most examples that we see will have three columns and we'll have written columns that may not have a certain name and may not have known this in fact we're only used to notice when we actually have missing values.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's look at.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Again, some examples here i'll show you an example that might have read key column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So in the in the in the class as data set there was just one common index the data, this is a potential way that we could get the input data for our transportation model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it has origin destination pairs and their associated unit shipping costs right so i'm going to pretend.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not really out there and I haven't created a library called beer, but i'm going to pretend this data set is out in beer trans costs Okay, so the name of the data set is trans costs and the library is called beer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And let's suppose that I want to read this into a parameter array which would be a two dimensional parameter right right called unit costs, just like in our model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now one thing you might notice it's different here is the names are different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Before when I wanted to put height weight and age into parameter raise the primaries conveniently have the names height weight and age, but now in the data set it's called costs and in the program pocket model program it's called unit cost the one we just compose.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now I could use SAS to rename the column unit costs but it's easier to do this, just kind of internally in pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'll show you how that looks so i'm going to Australia to things reading data with riki columns and translating the name as it comes into us.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here's the kind of general syntax i've got the key words in blue now all the blocks that we need to fill in in red.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now this is not a single element data set so i'm going to assume that I have read key columns okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I kind of eliminated, one of our set of italicize brackets, and since there's no missing values I don't have the option for the notice so i'll just start filling in the blanks SAS data set is called bearded trans costs so i'll fill that in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The real key columns the columns that index the data i'm going to use my trick and i'm going to say it's the columns that have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: character values will be origin and destination right, because this is the cost of an origin destination pair.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I can index it just by the origin, I have repeat values as far the destination, I repeat, values, but for the pair i'm Okay, and the way we enter, that is just separated by spaces, so it will be origin space destination OK.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now the recall them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is going to tell proc out model compiler to put the elements that the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the cost column into unit costs and the way I write that in the syntax is just target equals source, so the target is unit costs and the sources cost, so I say unit cost equals costs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now it's not necessary to put a capital C for costs just that typically we use capital letters for data set variable names are calling names and so i'm just kind of using that to associate them but it's not case sensitive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, when a little bit fast there on purpose, you might say, that's cruel, but I left out one of the optional elements here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now i'm not i'm not counting the no miss if I go back to the start, this is the ones i'm looking at set name SAS data set riki columns and recall which one is missing here whoops.
Fireman, Karen: Something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's no setting so let's think about what a set name would give us so a set name if we had set name equals before origin and destination would give us all of the origin destination Paris.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now that may not be useful, it probably for more far more usually would be to have a set of origins and a set of destinations that makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because we can always iterate over both of them and it's likely that there are other SAS data sets that hold the supply and demand values that we could use to populate origin and destination.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you don't always need a set name, because you may have that the index that's populated somewhere else.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or you could have several data sets that have the same type of data, but as, for whatever reason, they came in two different packages right, you might use a set name for the first one, and then not for the second one to kind of repopulated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: OK, so those are a couple of simple examples, let me now move to the furniture making problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and
MS Analytics Class 2021: There are various ways that I can organize the data for the furniture making problem when we get into the demonstration it'll have these SAS data steps that generate SAS data sets and i'm going to assume that the data is organized like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the the resource data is is pretty straightforward.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the product data SAS data set instead of being organized like the the trends costs as data set right have multiple read columns.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This has a block of data that's like a matrix, so this is something a little bit different right and it's not quite so straightforward to you to read a data set like this, but we want our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our read data statement to be powerful enough to read datasets like this, so we'll kind of have to instead of like using SAS data sets to make an easy SAS data set to read will just show how we can accomplish that in pocket model so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's the answer Well, no, this is not this is too too much to parse this is kind of puts it in context, this is the preamble to our our pocket model program here, as you can see, and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We declare set some sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because we don't initialize we have a type, which in this case is string think back to what the data sets look like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We declare our parameter arrays and don't initialize them because the Read data statements will populate the set some parameters okay so that's kind of like the preamble to the Read data statements, so now it's considered the Read data states and we'll pick up the easy one first.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to read the data from resource data notice that it's in the work directory So if you look back to the SAS data steps I didn't specify a library, that means they're created in work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, I don't have to include that in the name of the SAS data set if there's no library it's assumed to be work but i'm just being explicitly show you the table of the fast data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I repeated the parts of the declare sets and parameters that are germane to this read data statement i'm not repeating everything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the different elements are the real key column, I always like to keep it was like the first think about the common indexes the data that's the one that comes before the Read columns.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's going to be resource in this case, you can see resource here's the data set variable name it goes in the square brackets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then I have a set name do I want to capture those.
MS Analytics Class 2021: values of the observations in that column, I do those are the names of my resource, so I say resources equals resource and at this point you're thinking who some magic connection between the know it's just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Typically, choose the same names for things that play the same role that could be exactly the same name that could be completely different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I have the Read columns so notice that costs and costs have the same name not case sensitive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But availability and amount of availability have amount available have different names, so one is just the same and the other requires that kind of translation target equal source okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's not too much more complicated than the students test dataset it's just that now we have names for the different parts and i'm trying to reinforce those names.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, if you are a SAS data step programmer and don't we all wish you were SAS dataset programmers you might feel more comfortable.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With saying cost equals cost or even the incredibly wordy version that says cost of resource equals cost and availability of resource equals amount available.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of as we go through the data set observation by observation, the value of resource takes the name of that resource, and so this gives us the kind of explicitly gives us locations, that the data is going into, and if you notice, as it is that programmer then it doesn't really matter.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But think of this as an abbreviated version of this more verbose version at the bottom okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's move on to the second one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so I again repeating this the declaration for set some parameters that are germane to the street data statement.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i've got the key words in blue and i'm going to again go through the different parts one by one, so the first thing I looked at was the real key column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, in this case, it appears to be item right so it's the selling price of desks it's the amount of Labor required per desk so it's it's this column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Second part was and you'll notice that item appears below but but don't worry about that for the moment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We do want to set name and that will be products because you want to set up products in the furniture making problem products that we can produce desks chairs bookcases in bed friends.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we have a read column called selling price right selling price in the data set selling price in the model, so we don't have to use the translation here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But then we have this kind of weird thing in the middle, this is called an iterated recall this reads a block of data from the SAS data set into in this case a two dimensional parameter right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so let me just kind of zoom in on that part.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here's the block of data here is, if you will, my fanciful version of storage space in the in the in the cloud or whatever.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I want to put these numbers into this two dimensional parameter right the Labor column here, it goes into Labor column metal metal and over here are the names of the products right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One way I could do this I could say thinking about to that version of the Read data statement which has is verbose I can specify there the locations exactly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I think of this this two year this goes in the location for desks and Labor yeah desks as a string.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the first value of item Labor as a string is here, so this is the array location and whatever is in the Labor column and gets poured into that location.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so this is this is just an extension of what we saw before specifying the location, the name of the parameter array in the SAS data set variable name, and that would work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Except for if we had 100 products, and then we would be cutting and pasting amount of 700 resources here we'd be cutting cutting and pasting a lot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He and if you did it several times you think oh there's gotta be some shortcut way to do that because it's like almost exactly the same thing i'm touching every time it's just a different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: resource here and the name here and that's exactly what the iterated read column, does it loops over the resources and it specifies an array location destination for the data and then it has a SAS data set variable name now these two r's if we go back to the previous slide.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Take a typical resource like Labor this is Labor as a string, and this is Labor as a SAS dataset variable name so there's slightly different objects.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what this call expression here is doing is you can think of the call, as I like to think of it as a quote stripper not I wouldn't stripper but a quote stripper so it just takes this the quotes off.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Labor and turns it into a name, so the difference between a string and a SAS data set variable name Now this is, I will agree really terrible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: in the sense that if you needed to reproduce this from scratch, it would be very difficult.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But fortunately we have cut and paste So the first couple of times that you have to read a block of data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they'll go back to an example, you know that had a block of data copy the code paste it and then change the names to protect the innocent.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's the way I like to think about it right, and if you get the syntax wrong you'll get a lovely syntax error that hopefully will eventually seeing semi understandable to help you to figure out how to correct it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The read data statements for the furniture making problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me kind of combine that with our program that we already have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and show you what that looks like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me go into studio.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now I had a announcement that I modified some of the data sets to clean them up a little bit, I mean the the programs So when I open this up, if you haven't read downloaded the data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It might look up just a tiny bit different it's pretty cosmetic, but let me look for furniture read.
Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's basically just changing where the line breaks fall to make things a little bit clear so it's whatever it says revenue equals, maybe I put the sum up on the not in line with revenue compilers in different, and I think these are just a little bit easier to parse.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's look what we do so, the dates that the data steps just create our data sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I have my set some parameters, I read data statements and printing the parameter race to make sure the information gets into the right place, then i've got my model and model is exactly what I saw before.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, between the time when we first did this, and now we introduced the budget constraints in the DEMO if I include the budget constraint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can see here, it was total cost less than equal to 10,000 before.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you have a value like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The kind of proper form is to define a macro variable whose value is that number and then use the value of the macro variable in your program is a couple of reasons for that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One is we might want to think about running the program with a slightly different budget low and we could just go to the beginning of the program and just change that number 2015.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And rerun the model and see what happens the other advantage to doing it this way, is that it could be that the 10,000 is in multiple places in the program and if you were to go in and change them all to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will be more work than changing it in one place and it might be that the number 10,000 occurs in different places, with different meanings So if you get a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: replace you might come up with a model that wasn't the one you thought you were solving so it's good form to use data sets to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: populate parameter arrays and use macro variables to populate populate parameters, although you could also use a SAS data set with a single observation, if you had no real key comes, this is the more typical way that it's done.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now it's going to be no shock to you when I run this program and print, the solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That, I get the same solution that I had before right, so we look at the tables make sure the data is getting to the right places.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We look at the problem summary, to make sure it sounds like we've got the right problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the solution summary one 818 21.5 and here was our solution that we got for the number of items to produce we introduced the budget constraint, we got a fractional solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can see that we're using all of the available Labor all the available we're, but we have metal leftover okay so but it's not earth shattering that's exactly the same model that we saw before it's just that we initialize it and now we're reading the data from SAS datasets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me call to your attention in the code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We wanted to read the data from data sets that were not created like that, but there are versions of those data sets in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the library, let me open one just to show you so now, I have my op library.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm going to look at product data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here we go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is a SAS data set that has all the information in that that we had before, plus an additional column called setup time, but it has Labor metal we're selling price and all that stuff.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can read the some of the data and ignore the setup time, so if I go back into my code tab.
MS Analytics Class 2021: echols here we go that's up that product data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And there's a corresponding up that resource data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can read it again this to convince you that i've got the same information out there could check the tables, or we could look at the answer same solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, looking back at the code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I showed you this code and asked you what problem you are solving.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Would it come to mind will automatically say furniture making.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or is that just because that's the example that we looked at.
MS Analytics Class 2021: mean let's look in here for something that says furniture well furniture has products with a lot of other things that have products right the grocery store has products real resources, our country has resources right, so that those are they're pretty generic.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, the budget limit of 10,000 well that isn't always a furniture to me that just says cheap.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But there really isn't anything in the model itself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's that speaks to furniture making and in fact this is a model that solves those problems that we talked about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: whoops somehow bring it back to PowerPoint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which are called product mix problems right, so it solves a fairly generic model, I mean we've developed a fairly generic model that solves this class of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Product next problems, regardless of whether we're making furniture I think there's an example in the course notes we're making organic potting soils.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so it's it's fairly generic.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what i'm going to try and do now here is is to send you out into breakout rooms let's see so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll try and get back at quarter to nine so that should give you enough time to gathering your breakout rooms and and maybe have a little excursion along the way, but here's the exercise, I want you to try.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and hopefully you'll have one person in your group that follow the instructions in the announcement and downloaded the the data sets and the programs, so what i've got is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A similar data set to what you would see for a product next problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For a problem about beer production that's a little bit more complicated than the craft brewery problem which will use in us, you know later on exercise.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not this week, but the following weeks and so i'm asking you to do things like create a SAS library.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and modify that kind of preamble to the furniture making problem just the Read data statements and the decorations to read the data in from this data set to give you a little practice with the Read data state okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Why don't you go into your breakout rooms and try and do this, hopefully, one of you downloaded the data sets in the program so you'll have that available.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Creating libraries something you'll do in your your exercise this week so it's good practice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then just read through these and it just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of each step you do something and then you submit the program to print the parameter race to see if you got it right Okay, and then, when we come back if you have to troubleshoot anything we'll do that right, so our goal is to start back up at quarter to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I will monitor the chat if people have questions in their groups and they want.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some help.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you have this breakout exercise as a PDF file also.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If that helps.
Go.
So they can't see your chart but again during the call so.
Great to the questions that i'm going to tell them if they need help, just to leave the breakout rooms nonlinear way to come back and.
They get asked the question and we're going to make it work we're going to.
Come back to the main word.
For me.
The broadcast that chat at ease.
And let them know that it's a.
Good.
solution.
Well, I.
want to know.
That kind of makes it clear why I don't care right right.
They won't hasn't us because the time but we'll see who it's look it's transcribing.
She got an email saying transporting.
Oh it's the one that's out.
there.
So I must be getting in here.
Maybe.
let's see if.
We can hear you on you, I know.
results.
Okay she's gonna say.
She has to stay here until I leave.
Does it bother you can take the film, would you prefer them stay up.
me for sure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I know i'm really awesome.
Just just make sure you're getting enough.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah I know we've got some good stuff sometimes.
What did you need tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah, what do you make of it, it was Okay, it was good, with the needles were kind of dry yeah we didn't love it but we're trying out this was in the place that we sometimes use all weekend, but we never use it for Alex before and we never had this on you're trying to.
Clear instead of.
That.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sounds pretty good I can't picture that I.
sorry about that quicker if I put it having to be fixed I don't know what the situation is.
I think it got recalibrated because we have to do something different, with you on the weekend.
to something else to.
Think about what on Friday anyway.
So far, so let's begin.
I just go pee ha.
ha OK.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are you did you see my my team.
This person.
This.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is just five.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you know the body of the constraint you don't necessarily know if the constraint is satisfied.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have to compare the body to the limit of the equivalent constraints so it's doesn't measure whether the constraint is satisfied or not, it just tells you kind of what the variable expression is equal to, and sometimes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That expression has a name already like in the transportation its flow inner flow out in the furniture making model it's about us.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But when we don't have a name for it, you can use the body to get that quantity out Okay, so in some sense comparing the body to the limit tells you if the constraint is satisfied, but the status can also be used to determine that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: OK, so the constraint, has a lot of suffix parameter arrays we'll talk more about these shadow prices in the next lecture.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The decision variables, also have a number of suffix parameter raise but polite your tiny violins implicit variables and the objective function only have a single suffix parameter right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So for decision variables when you declare an array of decision variables it automatically creates suffix parameter raise lower bound upper bound this reduced cost is related to the dual values we'll talk about this next week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: the.so well value is the value in the solution, so this is something that you get after solving the model and the status again tells you whether the decision variable is at its lower bound that its upper bound or somewhere in between.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One might ask what good is this so well value, because if I think about my decision variables dumb prod I can say printing them prod.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that will print the values in the solution after solving the model I would get exactly the same information if I said print nonprofit so well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It turns out that they have slightly different roles, one is a decision variable and the other is a parameter and those can be used in different ways, will see that too great advantage here for the objective function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, in some cases, the implicit variables, so if we have implicit variables call them out used if you say print them out use an apparent amount of US stall you get the same table, but they can be used in different ways.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so just be aware that there are some additional information stored.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That can be used for output and some that's created upon the solution of the model that can also be used for output.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's see oh so i'm sorry someone is asking a question about the the exercise yes in that in that particular model, the selling price was the same for each product okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But still might not make them the model trivial to solve we'll see good question sorry I didn't see that earlier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let me, let me show you some more nuance of the print state so basically what we've seen is print name of something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Actually snuck in there, a little something extra I use the SAS format in the furniture read program for the things that were currency for costs and for selling price, so you can also use a SAS format.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The other thing that you can do is you can print strings that's sometimes useful to produce kind of a header to identify information so net profit is our objective in the furniture making problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: net profit with parentheses around it is just the value of net profit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So net profit with $1 format rounded to the nearest dollar and puts currency symbols and commas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it takes away the name so typically when you say print net profit, it has a header that says hey i'm gonna profit than the value below.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But we just compete the value with the parentheses, you lose that and so it's helpful to be able to just print strings so produces a little table here, and the results tab.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this seems like you might be kind of selling, but in this example of taking a value and printing it in a format that makes it easy to see the place like is it billions or trillions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is makes it easier to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To look at it and grab the value of it another thing is that, if you look at the values in the solution summary table they could be saying scientific notation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So they can be really hard to interpret so it's not a bad idea to apply a SAS format to certain values, to make them easier to parse.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some other examples.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's a table that takes the products in the optimal solution to the furniture making problem with the budget constraint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: shows the how many to produce and using an implicit variable defined in one of the exercises the practices for the suggested exercises breaks down profit by product.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can look in some of the programs will look at later i've defined that it's not rocket science it's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just an array of implicit variables, but one thing that's nice about this table is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Remember in the solution we don't make any desks, so if we had desks here, it would say desks 00 because they don't will make any and they don't contribute to the profit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the way that we admitted desk was we took the column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The name of the column and proceeded by index.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the index that could be an index that with a name like products, but we can also use what's called a selection expression to say i'm going to look at those products that satisfy this condition.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And in this case i'm saying show me those products that are positive in the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: OK, so the index set local dummy parameter expression in terms of the local dummy parameter, and so this would basically just eliminate desks it only works for the very next call So if I want to do the same thing with a profit column I just repeat the index set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay notice that the index that does not have to deal with the quantity that i'm printing I see now i'm proud here and i'm proud here, but none Prague here in profit here is any logical condition that involves elements of the pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Program.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, and so this is, this is all in one mega print statement it's separated out, the first thing because it's just a small it's just like a table with one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: row, and then it prints the other table below it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we've seen examples of that like if we print a one dimensional table on a two dimensional table in the same print statement it spits them out separately.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So there are some nuances to the to the print statement, but on the other hand, the print statement is also a fairly vanilla way to get output out mean it centers the results you don't have a lot of control over it other than what to print.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it also has these mysterious flowing numbers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here is some more examples from the furniture making problem, so these examples are all about the the products are some examples of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or concerned with the resource resources so i've printed for each resource, the amount used by the solution, the availability.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I created a new column, which is like the fractional usage, so I divided the amount used by the availability and expressed it as a percentage, so you can see up above here, I have my header resource usage right there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: amount using availability those the first two columns and then i'm basically just calculating something on the fly i'm telling pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That the secret formula is amount us divided by availability now because profit model is not a matrix based language I can't divide a column by another column, I have to divide a number by another number.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I accomplish that by introducing a local dummy parameter in the index set that precedes the secret formula in parentheses.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this doesn't really modify what i'm printing it just allows me to introduce a local dummy parameter and that parameter occurs in the formula and then i've added a SAS format to it to express it as a percent.
MS Analytics Class 2021: particular type of format oh yeah i'll explain this so so what this is telling is saying one decimal place like here 95.37 is the width.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the total width and you might say, well, why did you choose seven it 12345 is the biggest with here, this is gonna sound crazy but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have to account for the fact that you might have negative percent percentages, which have parentheses, so if I put five I would get around a compressed answer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So yeah a lot of sass formats have this something that something that the first something is the width and the second, something is the number of decimal places.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah I sometimes I forget, because I think most people who knows SAS more, no, no more sass than me that maybe people will actually know less asked me, because I know a lot about pocket model I don't know a lot about that says foundation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so those are some examples.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One of the things that we might have occasion to want to do, however, is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Maybe going back to the previous example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Instead of saying that the num prod was positive for these guys I might just say show me a list of the products that are made.
MS Analytics Class 2021: without bothering to tell me how many are made now of course you could create a SAS data set and then like take that call them out, and all that malarkey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But if we wanted immediate feedback to the results tab just tell me which products are made in the optimal solution the print statement is incapable of making a table that doesn't have information.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can't just tell it to like print nothing right which would produce kind of like this over here and then no columns But there is another SAS.
MS Analytics Class 2021: command or statement to get information out called the put statement and that can be used in profit model to list the elements of an index set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it just says put, and then the name of something, and if you put an equal sign after it, you also get the name of something as a header.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I say put products equal it says products, equal and then new rates to set products or resources equals resources equals and then in a new rates, the set okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, by default, the put statements go to the SAS log So if you want them in the results tab you say file print, it would make more sense to say file results, maybe, but no file print.
MS Analytics Class 2021: because that kind of tab was called something else in the older SAS windows environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this directs the output to the results tan puts the products and resources this says redirected to the log.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this puts the string in the log so you can send a little love note to the to the SAS compiler right so print vanilla statements you have some control, you can modify the scope of things by using an index set you can add SAS formats put statement.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Even though it looks really primitive here at the way i've used it it's left justified it's not not anything fancy has a lot of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Very menu formatting statements that can be applied to it, and so, if you googled to put statements you could you could find some of those things like you can skip over four columns and all kinds of crazy stuff.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that can be a little bit more attractive one of the ways that the put state and is used in SAS and maybe also, I guess, I could say in pocket model is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For complicated programs for debugging you just put the value various indexes as you're going through strange loops and stuff and see if it's doing what you think it's doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that's print and put.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me, let me do some of that for the furniture making model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to do that in the following way i'm going to instead of opening up the main DEMO i'm going to open up a kind of more primitive version.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'll ask for some tricky suggestions and if I don't get any tricky suggestions i'll just do a couple of things that I know I can accomplish without making errors, so let me go into files and folders demos furniture, this is going to be furniture output partial.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you want to cheat you could open up furniture output and you know what to ask for, but I mean how to do those things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here's the macro variable and reading from the op library.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The only way we know it's the furniture making problem is if we remember the names of the data sets resource data and product data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: After solving the model i'm doing exactly what I showed you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the slides, so let me start from that and then I can ask if people have suggestions, so let me just run it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not quite sure what the error is let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh, unless they have it highlighted sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Can we make sure, nothing is highlighted and running again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: strange.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Go back and see what's wrong.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh, I did have something highlighted.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, should work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, no errors.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we have a few things printed These are the things I showed you in the slides right nothing super fancy here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Does anyone have a suggestion let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: anything they have been I know you're all going gangbusters for all this furniture stuff.
MS Analytics Class 2021: me, you may not have anything that you're dying to know about this problem but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They make a suggestion, and you can see if you can come up with something else let's say we wanted to know which products were produced in the solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's put something here it's also put.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In since so i'll put products.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And solutions solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, how would I, how would I, how would I express that well I have it up here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This index said and copy it paste it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it might seem strange, but that will give me a syntax error, because I actually need the value of that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I want to put it in parentheses.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I don't put the parentheses whoops.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't put the parentheses it'll expect the name of something instead of the value of something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we can see what that produces you know what products are in the optimal solution, obviously, but in a larger problem this might be useful.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can see chairs bookcases in bed frames.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And maybe I might might have been equals there I couldn't have automatically had a header like products and resources because that set doesn't have a name it's a constructed set or or or computed set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Anything else anybody wants to see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, a lot of not a lot of enthusiasm i'm detecting here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me suggest that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you want to see more you can go to the full demonstration in the in the course notes, where I do a couple more things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so, for example, if you had something in the exercises that you wanted to look for an example similar you could look there are in the old exercises.
Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then let's look at creating SAS data sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's, the last thing we'll do tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the good news is, if you like, to read data statement the CRATE is that Mr Miller.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Has the same basic syntax and the bad news is, if you were confused about the Read data statement the create data statement is no better or worse.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so we look at the elements here we have create data SAS data set now again it's not an existing SAS data set it's one that we're going to create, so we have some.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can it's a naming opportunity, let us say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then there are some columns that index the data set now they're called key columns instead of repeat columns and that's again another naming opportunity for us.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Key set which determines which observations get written out to the SAS data set and then columns which are basically the numerical columns that we want to have in our data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the same basic elements but you'll notice that things are kind of reversed, so when we think about creating data, the target and the source, are reversed for meeting data in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So instead of settling equals riki columns we have key columns equals key set and if we have columns that have different names will see that the target and source our reverse.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, but the same basic format and if you printed out the the handouts for the class you'll see them back to back if you printed it two sided.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can have that as a resource for you so where I like to think about this, as is, I want to visualize the data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's what this individual here is visualizing a data set so he wants to get the solution to the furniture making problem to the minions so they can implement it and so he visualizes the following SAS data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think so Okay, what are the observations, what are the columns named and so forth, because then we have the elements to put into the syntax for the create data statement.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The first thing is the key column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the same way that when we're reading a SAS data set, we want to decide what the real key column is, first, this is the column indexes the data, and so the way he's visualized it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's called item, and it goes into square brackets again array locations square brackets try and reinforce the notation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The next element is the key set that's what drives the observations, so if I say item equals products each product generates an observation in the SAS data set and they going item call okay so just again the reverse of the syntax for the Read data statement.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then the columns so instead of recons they're just called columns in this case it's just one column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the pocket model program it's called non prod it sounds really geeky so he's decided to call it number underscore produced and so that's that becomes the SAS data set variable name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so get a pretty simple, straightforward example the syntax is not super complicated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So suppose them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That like when we printed a table similar to this let's say we wanted to produce a SAS data set that had basically the same information contacts content but not not an observation for desks so just bookcases bed friends and chairs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'll show you two ways to do this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The first way is using a data set auction which you can think of as creating the full data set and trimming it down to a smaller data set that satisfies this condition.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The condition in this case, so this is going to have everything else is going to have read it create data OPS Lucian this thing from an ALDI or other things, this is just a one part that has an extra little belly button on it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It says, where number produces strictly positive so number produces a column in the SAS dataset go back and look there's a number produce column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the were equal expression has to reference SAS dataset variable names because it's it's become a SAS thing at that point okay so that's one way another way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is to have a selection expression in the key set saying those products for which numb prod is strictly positive so now, this is a pocket modeling thing instead of a sassy thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right one or the other, either one will accomplish exactly the same data set produced it's oftentimes a case a case of which might be easier or more elegant but they accomplish the same thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What else can we do in a table and also do in a SAS data set we had these kind of weird and mysterious columns that are constructed on the fly, we can do the same thing with a SAS data set so here was the original SAS data set that we visualize or he visualized.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And let's say we want to add a new column to it that, because these fractional variables might be troublesome just captured the fractional parts of the column The pre previous call.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And well turns out there's a SAS function that we can easily compute this fractional part and then we just kind of give the expression on the fly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here's create data up solution from item equals products number produced equals non prod so my new column called fraction is calculated using the SAS function MOD.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Its value is computed inside parentheses, and to make it specific to in this case a particular product I introduced the local dummy parameter so it's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Basically, the same thing that I did in producing a table I can do in producing a SAS dataset call it in this case i'm not saying that this is very exciting column, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In your particular application, you might have an idea, this is additional information that i'd like to get.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you're a SAS programmer you might say, just write everything out and then i'll do it in a SAS data step that's fine if you're a SAS programmer, but you can also do these things in pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me look at an example where instead of reading a SAS data set with multiple riki columns we want to create a SAS data set with multiple key codes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's say I solve the transportation model, and I want to write out the answer so that the minions can load up the barrels of beer and Chicago and Detroit and send them on their merry way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I, this is the SAS data set that i'm visualizing that i'd like to produce in this case i'm going to make it in the work library.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's called shipping links as columns origin destination and amount Okay, so it looks something like this, origin and destination or key columns they go in the square brackets separated by space, if I had three of them they'd be separated by two spaces.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The column that I want to write target is amount sources membership again i'm sure sounds kind of geeky when you see it in a SAS data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is a simple example with multiple key calls.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Something is missing in this example to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Previously we had an example that had.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A set name that was missing what element is missing in this example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So is it the key columns know there, they are, is it the columns know the column there and there's no key set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the key set tells you what observations to write out how will it know it looks at what you're writing out, which is numb ship and it implicitly assumed that however numb ship is index that's what the key said is so in this case now i'm ship is indexed by origins and destinations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so it uses that as the key set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's ask the same question here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's say we only want to know the ones that have a positive value.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, like we did when we eliminated desks, how can I trim that data set down to just three observations may seem trivial, but in a larger data set it might be very sparse, and so we might be sitting, a lot of megabytes or megabucks in in just looking at the positive values.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So one way is simple, and that is, we can use a data set option, we could say create the data shipping links were equals amount is positive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's that's actually pretty straightforward, in this case, there is another way modifying the key set which i'll show you as an example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's a little complicated because the key said is actually origins common destinations, so it turns out, being kind of clumsy I in origins and Jane destinations such that num ship is positive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that would probably be an indication that the other method would be preferred, in that case okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so that's almost all of the examples that i've shown you before.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I do want to show you one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That I hope you will never use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can create a SAS data set with a block of data, like the one that was hard to read for the furniture making problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: using an iterated column I don't recommend it the syntax supports it mean to create data statement can be used to create a SAS data set like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's far easier, just to create a SAS data set with multiple key columns in that case okay just wanted to show you that the the the capability is there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me, let me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: go in and do a DEMO where I create some sass data sets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you want to sign out at this point, and just look at the DEMO in the course notes that's completely okay with me, so I realized, it is getting late.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me go back into pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That will be the last thing we do so, you won't miss anything else, let me go to furniture create.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Partial.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I read it and solve the furniture making model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And here I am at the bottom, you can see where i'm writing data to a SAS data set the only thing that's interesting and new here is this command that says reset print level equals zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So print level controls, the amount of output, the default value print novel equals one gives you a problem summary table a solution summary table.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is useful information, but in this case, if this model is production, I may not really care about that, I just want the SAS data set send it to the minions what print level equals zero does is it is it suppresses those two tables, so if I run this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: semi nothing is highlighted.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's no results.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's no output produce table of contents is nothing there, but I did create a SAS data set I created a SAS data set that has item in the number produced okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you might be saying to yourself well if the default value is one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And zero gives you less what happens if you make it to what more could we get well let's try that but let's also maybe modify this a little bit so What could we do in this case, we could say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Maybe P in products, so it doesn't always have to be non prod greater than zero it could be non prod just any condition.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now i'm proud of p.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No less than less than 40.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not sure which which exactly that will give us.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that will modify things perhaps let's try Actually, I think the biggest one might be on the order of 26 let's just say, less than 25.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Fair enough.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So also admit that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We got output data, presumably turns out the desk is the only thing that was made less than 25.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me show you in the in the results, what we get when we say predictable equals two problems summary solution summary something called solver options oh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's where we can tell which solver options, there are and what our values are and some optimizations statistics and problems statistics so let's see what's new is here, these are all the solver options for linear programming models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can see, we use your specify any of them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here is the problem statistics, they speak to the sparsity of the problem in some sense different sections.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the optimization statistics break down the running time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: into more categories than we see in the solution summary table okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any questions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can take requests here if anybody wants to say anything weird.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In creating SAS data sets you thinking now moving on to weird maybe i'll just read the DEMO myself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Again, all the demos, that we do are in the course notes program is listed out all the speaking points are in there, so all that information is there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you should be able to download this week's homework assignment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I will mention that i'm not going to post, the solution to the one that's do tonight for a couple of days, because people do have the option with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not a horrendous penalty of handing things late, so I will wait a couple of days to to broadcast the solutions if you're really curious if you could email me and I could, if you've already turned in your homework, I could send you the solutions okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any other questions.
Fireman, Karen: yeah we missed one or two.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the homework that was do this week was do.
Fireman, Karen: Is Mina Mina when is the next time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you told us to go it's doing a week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The only reason that we had two weeks to do the first one was because of the timing with jamie's project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They want to have the homework do in the same day that he had the project to.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you.
Swanson J, Charles: Thank you very much.
Fireman, Karen: Individuals that right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, all the homework assignments are individual in the project is a group project.
Wright, Beth: Just to clarify, though we are permitted to work with our groups on homework right, we can collaborate with our peers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That would be better if you do by yourself, but you should certainly do the right up by yourself, so yeah I don't mind if you ask your buddies you know it's like i'm having problems with that i'd rather have you just email me but.
Wright, Beth: Okay, thank you.
Thank you.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you very much.
county left way should be off there.